0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	ABSTRACT	Deposition of amyloid-beta (Abeta) in the cerebral cortex is thought to be a pivotal event in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis with a significant genetic contribution.
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	ABSTRACT	Molecular imaging can provide an early noninvasive phenotype but small samples have prohibited genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of cortical Abeta load until now.
0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	ABSTRACT	We employed florbetapir (18F) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging to assess brain Abeta levels in vivo for 555 participants from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI).
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	ABSTRACT	More than six million common genetic variants were tested for association to quantitative global cortical Abeta load controlling for age, gender, and diagnosis.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	rs429358	ABSTRACT	Independent genome-wide significant associations were identified on chromosome 19 within APOE (rs429358, p = 5.5 x 10-14) and on chromosome 3 upstream of BCHE (rs509208, p = 2.7 x 10-8) in a region previously associated with serum butyrylcholinesterase activity.
1	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	ABSTRACT	Together, these loci explained 15% of the variance in cortical Abeta levels in this sample (APOE 10.7%, BCHE 4.3%).
0	NA	ITGA6	NA	ABSTRACT	Suggestive associations were identified within ITGA6, near EFNA5, EDIL3, ITGA1, PIK3R1, NFIB, and ARID1B, and between NUAK1 and C12orf75.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	ABSTRACT	These results confirm the association of APOE with Abeta deposition and represent the largest known effect of BCHE on an AD-related phenotype.
1	Alzheimer's disease	BCHE	NA	ABSTRACT	Butyrylcholinesterase has been found in senile plaques and this new association of genetic variation at the BCHE locus with Abeta burden in humans may have implications for potential disease-modifying effects of butyrylcholinesterase-modulating agents in the AD spectrum
0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	INTRO	Cortical deposition of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide is thought to be a crucial early step in the cascade of events leading to Alzheimer's disease (AD).
0	neuritic plaque burden	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	INTRO	The presence of cortical neuritic plaques, consisting of Abeta fibrils surrounded by degenerating neuronal processes, is a hallmark feature for pathologic diagnosis of AD.
0	cognitive defects	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	INTRO	Abeta plaques have also been identified in individuals meeting clinical criteria for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and have exhibited subtle relationships with cognition among older individuals without dementia or MCI symptoms.
0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	INTRO	In addition, pathogenic mutations in genes related to Abeta processing, including the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 and -2 (PSEN1, PSEN2) genes, have been discovered in patients with the rare, autosomal dominant form of AD.
0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	INTRO	As a result, Abeta accumulation is increasingly proposed as a major antecedent ultimately leading to incident AD
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	INTRO	The fundamental biological influences on brain Abeta levels are not yet fully understood.
0	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	NA	INTRO	The strongest known genetic risk factor for AD is presence of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 allele, and in vitro and murine studies have proposed plausible links between the encoded ApoE E4 isoform and aberrant Abeta mechanisms.
0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid precursor protein	NA	INTRO	However, APOE epsilon4 is neither necessary nor sufficient for development of AD pathology, suggesting that the biology underlying Abeta accumulation involves contributions from other genes and pathways, as well as the environment
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	INTRO	The ongoing search for genetic modulators of brain Abeta deposition in humans has been bolstered by advances in imaging methods for noninvasive detection of fibrillar Abeta in vivo.
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	INTRO	While existing genetic studies of brain Abeta have focused on candidate genes due to moderate sample sizes, the enhanced stability of recently-developed 18F-labeled positron emission tomography (PET) imaging Abeta tracers such as florbetapir (also known as AV-45 or Amyvid) allows for more widespread evaluation to facilitate the acquisition of larger cohorts for analysis.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	INTRO	Importantly, florbetapir PET data has demonstrated strong relationships with pathologically-verified assessments of fibrillar Abeta burden, and thus represents a novel and robust quantitative phenotype that can be assessed in samples with heightened power for discovery of genes influencing Abeta neuropathology
0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	INTRO	We used quantitative florbetapir PET data from 555 participants enrolled in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) to perform the first genome-wide association study (GWAS) of cortical Abeta burden in humans.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	INTRO	We hypothesized that GWAS would confirm the association of APOE as well as identify other genetic modulators of brain Abeta deposition
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This report utilized data from ADNI (http://adni.loni.ucla.edu/), a multi-site longitudinal study that was launched in 2004 as a public-private partnership.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The initial phase (ADNI-1) enrolled individuals aged 55-90 years who were recruited from over 50 sites across the United States and Canada and followed at 6-to 12-month intervals for 2-3 years.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	These individuals included approximately 200 healthy controls (HC), 400 patients with late MCI (LMCI), and 200 patients clinically diagnosed with probable AD.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Subsequent phases (ADNI-GO and ADNI-2) have extended follow-up for existing participants and have enrolled additional individuals, including those meeting criteria for early MCI (EMCI).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	All participants provided written informed consent and study protocols were approved by each site's institutional review board.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Further information about ADNI, including full study protocols, complete inclusion and exclusion criteria, and data collection and availability can be found at http://www.adni-info.org/
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	METHODS	PET imaging using the 18F-labeled Abeta tracer florbetapir was performed for participants enrolled in ADNI-GO or ADNI-2.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Participants were administered a bolus injection of approximately 370 MBq florbetapir intravenously.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Fifty minutes later, a 20-minute continuous cranial PET scan was initiated.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Images were reconstructed immediately following the scan using iterative algorithms, and repeat scans were acquired if motion artifact was detected.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Preprocessing of the scans was performed as previously described.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Briefly, image frames were averaged, aligned to a standard space (AC-PC), resampled to a standard image and voxel size, smoothed to a uniform resolution, and normalized to an atlas-based bilateral and symmetric cerebellar reference region.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This cerebellar reference region consisted largely but not exclusively of grey matter and was expected to exhibit nonspecific binding, ultimately resulting in standardized uptake value ratio (SUVR) images.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These preprocessed scans were downloaded from the ADNI database (http://adni.loni.ucla.edu/) for 621 participants.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each scan, mean regional SUVR values were extracted for the frontal, parietal, temporal, limbic, and occipital lobes using the MarsBaR toolbox implemented in the Statistical Parametric Mapping 8 (SPM8) software (http://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk/spm/software/spm8/).
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	METHODS	The average SUVR for these 5 regions was then calculated to represent a global cortical measure of Abeta deposition to be used as a quantitative phenotype for GWAS.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	Overall, 19 participants (11 HC, 6 MCI, 2 AD) were excluded due to missing scan data or failed processing, leaving data for 602 individuals available for further analysis
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A blood draw for genomic DNA extraction was obtained at the screening or baseline visit for all study participants.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Genotyping on these samples was performed according to manufacturer's protocol (Illumina, Inc., San Diego, CA) using the Human610-Quad BeadChip (for subjects initially enrolled during ADNI-1) or the Human OmniExpress BeadChip (for subjects initially enrolled in ADNI-GO or ADNI-2).
1	NA	NA	rs429358	METHODS	In addition, the two SNPs characterizing APOE epsilon2/epsilon3/epsilon4 status (rs429358 and rs7412) were genotyped separately as previously described and merged with the array data sets.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	All genotype data underwent stringent quality control procedures (sample exclusion for call rate < 95% or failed identity or gender check, and SNP exclusion for call rate < 95%, Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium test p < 1 x 10-6, or minor allele frequency (MAF) < 1%) using PLINK (http://pngu.mgh.harvard.edu/~purcell/plink/), version 1.07.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In addition, to limit possible effects of population stratification, multidimensional clustering analysis was used to select only participants with non-Hispanic Caucasian (CEU or TSI) ancestry based on HapMap3 reference populations.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Overall, one individual was excluded due to a failed gender check and 42 individuals were excluded based on ancestry
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Next, haplotype patterns from the 1000 Genomes Project reference panel were used to impute genotypes for markers not directly assayed.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Prior to imputation, the orientation of all genotyped markers in relation to the plus strand alignment of the reference panel genome (NCBI build 37 coordinates) was verified and monomorphic variants from the reference panel were excluded.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Minimac was used to impute samples within groups based on the genotyping platform employed (Illumina 610-Quad or OmniExpress).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Following imputation, SNPs with r2 < 0.5 between imputed and assayed genotypes were removed.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The remaining array SNPs demonstrated > 99.9% concordance between imputed and assayed genotypes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The independently-imputed data sets were then merged to generate a common set of more than 10 million SNPs for the full ADNI sample.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Following quality control (SNP call rate < 95%, Hardy-Weinberg p < 1 x 10-6) and frequency filtering (MAF < 5%), 6,108,668 SNPs were included in the GWAS.
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	METHODS	Of the 602 participants with Abeta PET data, 559 individuals were included in the resulting genetic data set.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Among these individuals, four pairs exhibited significant relatedness (PLINK identity by descent PI_HAT > 0.5) and therefore one individual from each pair was randomly selected for exclusion (2 HC, 1 EMCI, 1 LMCI), leaving 555 participants for the final GWAS sample
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	METHODS	For the GWAS, linear regression was performed using PLINK to determine the association of each SNP to global cortical Abeta levels.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	An additive genetic model was specified and age, gender, and diagnosis (through a set of binary dummy variables indicating HC, EMCI, LMCI, or AD) were applied as covariates.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To account for multiple comparisons, we employed a conservative threshold for genome-wide significant association (p < 5 x 10-8) based on a Bonferroni correction of one million independent tests.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Haploview (http://www.broad.mit.edu/mpg/haploview/) was used to generate Manhattan and Q-Q plots and SNAP (http://www.broadinstitute.org/mpg/snap/) was used to obtain regional association plots for selected loci.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Post-hoc analyses, including hierarchical linear regression, effect size calculations, and exploratory correlation and interaction studies using Bonferroni corrections for multiple comparisons, were performed using IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows, Version 20.0 (Armonk, NY)
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	This study analyzed data from 555 ADNI participants with non-Hispanic Caucasian ancestry.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Participants were diagnosed at the time of the PET scan as HC, EMCI, LMCI, or AD.
0	amnestic MCI	NA	NA	RESULTS	EMCI subjects met clinical criteria for amnestic MCI but exhibited milder (between 1.0 and 1.5 standard deviations below age-associated norms) memory impairment (Table 1).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	In this sample, the EMCI group was younger than the other groups (p < 0.001).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	All groups displayed comparable levels of education but the LMCI group included fewer female participants compared to the HC group (Chi-square p = 0.029)
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The GWAS results did not indicate evidence of spurious inflation of association test statistics (lambda = 1.00) due to population stratification or other confounding factors (Figure 1).
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	RESULTS	Loci on two chromosomes exhibited genome-wide significant association (p < 5 x 10-8) to cortical Abeta levels (Figure 2).
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	rs429358	RESULTS	As expected, the peak association originated on chromosome 19 from rs429358 (p = 5.45 x 10-14), which codes for the APOE epsilon4 allele.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	While other SNPs within APOE and in the region of its adjacent genes APOC1, TOMM40, and PVRL2 also displayed significant association to cortical Abeta levels in the primary GWAS model (Figure 2 and Figure 3A), their association signals disappeared (p > 0.05) when APOE epsilon4 status (absence = 0, presence = 1) was included as a covariate
1	NA	BCHE	NA	RESULTS	Multiple SNPs on chromosome 3 near BCHE (butyrylcholinesterase) also displayed genome-wide significant association to cortical Abeta load (Figure 2).
1	NA	BCHE	rs509208	RESULTS	The peak association signal at this locus originated from rs509208 (p = 2.69 x 10-8), which is approximately 450 kb upstream (5') of BCHE (Figure 3B).
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	This association remained strong with the inclusion of APOE epsilon4 status as a covariate (p = 1.94 x 10-7)
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	RESULTS	Several additional loci exhibited suggestive association (p < 5 x 10-6) to cortical Abeta levels (Figure 2 and Supplementary Table 1).
0	NA	ITGA6	NA	RESULTS	These loci included SNPs within or near the cell adhesion genes of ITGA6 (integrin, alpha 6; chromosome 2) and ITGA1 (integrin, alpha 1; chromosome 5) as well as SNPs near the insulin signaling pathway gene PIK3R1 (phosphoinositide-3-kinase, regulatory subunit 1; chromosome 5), among others.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	The association signals at these loci were not reduced after the inclusion of APOE epsilon4 allele status as a covariate (data not shown)
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	Following the GWAS, we performed post-hoc analyses to further assess the impact of the APOE and BCHE loci on Abeta burden.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	rs509208	RESULTS	While both the APOE epsilon4 allele and the minor allele (G) of rs509208 conferred increases in cortical Abeta levels (Figure 4A and 4B), there was no evidence of epistasis modeled as an interaction between these factors (p = 0.871).
1	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	rs509208	RESULTS	Instead, these factors appeared to exert independent and additive effects on Abeta burden (Figure 4C), with comparable effect size associated with presence of at least one copy of the minor allele at rs509208 whether APOE epsilon4 allele status was included as a covariate (Cohen's d = 0.50) or not (Cohen's d = 0.52).
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	Exploratory analyses did not reveal significant interactions (p > 0.05) of the APOE or BCHE risk loci with age, diagnosis, education, or gender
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	RESULTS	Finally, we performed hierarchical linear regression to assess the variance in Abeta levels uniquely explained by these genetic factors (DeltaR2).
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	RESULTS	Age, gender, and diagnosis were entered as the first block in the model, and collectively accounted for 2.7% of the variance in cortical Abeta levels in this sample.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	rs509208	RESULTS	APOE epsilon4 allele status (+/-) and BCHE rs509208 allele status (+/-) were included in the second block for stepwise entry into the model.
1	NA	BCHE	rs509208	RESULTS	APOE epsilon4 was found to explain an additional 10.7% of the variance, while BCHE rs509208 accounted for 4.3% of variance over and above that explained by the previously entered variables
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	DISCUSS	Using florbetapir PET and GWAS, this study confirmed the association of APOE and identified a novel and independent association of BCHE to cerebral Abeta deposition.
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	Together, the risk variants at these loci explained 15% of the variation in cortical Abeta levels, a substantial effect for two genes in a study of complex disease of this size.
0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	Additional loci, including both new genes and others previously studied in relation to AD, also displayed suggestive association to Abeta burden and provide further targets for follow-up
0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	Florbetapir PET allows for noninvasive detection of brain Abeta plaques, a hallmark pathologic feature of AD.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	It also serves as a quantitative endophenotype that can provide increased statistical power for discovery using GWAS compared to case-control designs.
0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	Although the heritability of Abeta deposition, a dynamic process captured by PET at one time point, is unknown and not a direct proxy for AD heritability, implicated markers using this approach may be more closely related to underlying processes impacting disease risk and progression
1	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	NA	DISCUSS	For late-onset AD, the largest known genetic risk factor is the APOE epsilon4 allele.
0	neurodegenerative disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	Extensive prior studies have suggested a number of mechanistic roles for APOE epsilon4 on Abeta burden, including hindering clearance of soluble Abeta from the brain, favoring Abeta aggregation into fibrils, and promoting neurodegeneration by directing toxic Abeta oligomers to synapses.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	DISCUSS	Among the genes neighboring APOE, we found no significant associations with Abeta burden after including APOE epsilon4 status as a covariate.
1	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	While this suggests that these genes did not exhibit independent effects on Abeta deposition, the extensive linkage disequilibrium (LD) structure around APOE makes this difficult to definitively determine
1	Alzheimer's disease	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	BCHE has previously been proposed as an AD risk gene.
1	Alzheimer's disease	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	Butyrylcholinesterase is known to be enriched within Abeta plaques in post-mortem human AD brains, and its increased presence has been suggested as a critical factor in the formation of the neuritic plaques of dementia.
1	NA	BCHE	rs1803274	DISCUSS	The most commonly studied BCHE SNP is the K-variant (rs1803274), which is approximately 500 kb downstream of and not in LD with rs509208.
1	Alzheimer's disease	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	The BCHE K-variant has demonstrated synergistic effects with APOE epsilon4 on incidence of pathologically-confirmed late-onset AD and on risk of progression from MCI to AD.
1	NA	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	Nevertheless, the present study is the first to implicate genetic variation at the BCHE locus in brain Abeta burden in humans and represents the largest reported effect for this gene on an AD-related phenotype
1	NA	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	There are several mechanisms which might explain the effect of BCHE on Abeta plaque burden.
1	dementia	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	Genetic variation at BCHE has been associated with increased cortical butyrylcholinesterase activity in autopsy tissue from elderly individuals with dementia.
0	neurodegenerative disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	Increased enzyme activity, leading to decreased acetylcholine levels, may disrupt synaptic functioning, glial cell activation, and myelin maintenance to favor Abeta plaque formation and neurodegeneration.
1	Alzheimer's disease	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	Indeed, cholinesterase inhibitors are presently first-line symptomatic therapies for AD, and drugs such as rivastigmine which inhibit butyrylcholinesterase are suggested to have potential disease-modifying effects in certain individuals compared to exclusive acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.
1	NA	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	Alternatively, through non-enzymatic functions butyrylcholinesterase may promote Abeta fibrillogenesis from soluble precursors or may interact with Abeta and ApoE to alter the cerebrospinal fluid environment and to render developing plaques more resistant to clearance.
1	NA	BCHE	rs509208	DISCUSS	Interestingly, butyrylcholinesterase activity has been associated with insulin resistance, and rs509208 in particular has been associated in a separate GWAS with diabetes-related traits, suggesting a broader role of the BCHE locus in disorders characterized by amyloidogenic protein accumulation
1	NA	BCHE	rs509208	DISCUSS	Although rs509208 is approximately 450 kb upstream (5') of BCHE and not within conventional gene boundaries, the next closest genes (ZBBX, SERPINI2) are nearly 1 Mb in the opposite direction (Supplementary Figure 3).
1	NA	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	Of note, SNPs as far as 800 kb upstream of BCHE have previously demonstrated genome-wide significant association with serum butyrylcholinesterase activity in a population sample of nearly 9000 individuals from several Australian twin and family studies.
1	NA	BCHE	rs2034445	DISCUSS	These SNPs included a peak signal 250 kb from the gene (rs2034445) and other non-independent signals from SNPs in high linkage disequilibrium with rs509208 (e.g., rs6443374 and rs13314077), suggesting that variants upstream of the gene may exert regulatory effects on BCHE expression with consequences to the activity of its encoded enzyme.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Converging evidence in genomics indicates that this kind of regulation is quite common and may involve mechanisms influencing chromatin structure, transcription factor binding, and splicing component recognition sequences, among others.
1	NA	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	Molecular characterization in brain tissue and cell cultures will be important to determine the complex functional architecture of the BCHE locus and the genes and other DNA elements surrounding it
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The current study has several limitations.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Although this represents the largest genetic study of Abeta PET, the sample size has limited power for a GWAS.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	With a larger sample, the suggestive loci we highlighted might have achieved genome-wide significance.
0	Alzheimer's disease	ITGA6	NA	DISCUSS	Among these included ITGA6 which encodes a component of a receptor complex proposed to mediate the pro-inflammatory interaction of microglia with Abeta fibrils, PIK3R1 which may contribute to disruptions in insulin signaling in the AD brain, and other genes with potential relationships to AD pathogenesis.
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	Similarly, given the novelty of the present Abeta PET GWAS dataset, a comparable replication sample is not yet available
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	In addition, the ADNI cohort represents a sample typical of a clinical trial for MCI/AD and the analyses here were restricted to non-Hispanic Caucasians.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The extent to which the present findings can be generalized to other populations and to the community setting of MCI/AD individuals remains to be determined.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Future multi-center and international collaborations are expected to yield larger samples with greater power for analyses of potential interactions of genetic risk factors with each other and with clinical variables such as gender, ethnicity, family history, age of onset, and rate of disease progression, which could not be appropriately addressed with presently available data.
0	neurodegenerative disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	Florbetapir also does not bind soluble forms of Abeta which may exhibit dynamic relationships with deposited, fibrillar Abeta to drive neurodegeneration in AD.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Finally, while this study employed imputed (probabilistically-predicted) genotype data to provide deep coverage of the genome, higher-density genotyping arrays and sequencing will eventually provide direct assays for a similar number of variants
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Despite these limitations, the present findings point to several intriguing extensions for follow-up.
0	longitudinal	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	First, GWAS of longitudinal change in florbetapir PET Abeta burden is likely to elucidate additional genes modulating the rate of progression of AD neuropathology.
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	Complementary analytical strategies, including pathway- and epistasis-based approaches, may also reveal functional influences on Abeta deposition that are not easily observed through standard GWAS methodologies.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	In addition, whole genome sequencing will dramatically enhance the granularity of coverage for GWAS-implicated loci and could be particularly valuable for discovering additional novel loci, rare variants, copy number variants, and DNA regulatory elements.
1	Alzheimer's disease	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	Finally, the approval for widespread use of both florbetapir PET imaging and butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors creates a unique opportunity to prospectively assess the effects of these drugs on Abeta deposition over time, particularly among individuals at early stages in the AD spectrum where clinical efficacy would likely be most valuable
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	This study highlights the power of pairing targeted molecular imaging with genome-wide analytical strategies to elucidate mechanisms underlying AD pathophysiology.
1	NA	BCHE	NA	DISCUSS	The association of the BCHE locus to Abeta deposition merits further investigation and may have significant implications for risk stratification, biomarker interpretation, and therapeutic development
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The Q-Q plot exhibits no evidence of genomic inflation (PLINK-calculated lambda = 1.00) or population stratification in the GWAS.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	An additive genetic model was used and age, gender, and diagnosis were applied as covariates.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Analyses were restricted to subjects with non-Hispanic Caucasian (CEU or TSI) ancestry as determined by genetic clustering.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Observed -log10 p-values > 8 are represented along the top of the plot as red triangles, while all other values are represented as red dots
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	FIG	More than six million SNPs were tested for association to global cortical Abeta burden under an additive genetic model and applying age, gender, and diagnosis as covariates.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	FIG	Genome-wide significant associations (exceeding the threshold represented by the red line) were identified on chromosome 19 within APOE and its neighboring genes and on chromosome 3 at the BCHE locus.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Suggestive associations (exceeding the threshold represented by the blue line) were identified on five additional chromosomes.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Annotations are provided for genome-wide significant associations and for the top three suggestive associations
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	rs429358	FIG	Magnified association plots are displayed for the regions around A) rs429358 within APOE and B) rs509208 at the BCHE locus.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	SNPs are plotted based on their GWAS -log10 p-values (left vertical axis) and their genomic position (NCBI build 36).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Genes in these regions are labeled with arrows denoting their 5'-to-3' orientation, and the red color scale of r2 values is used to label SNPs based on their degree of linkage disequilibrium with the annotated peak SNP.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Recombination rates calculated from 1000 Genomes Project reference data are also displayed in a blue line corresponding to the right vertical axis
1	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	rs509208	FIG	Mean cortical Abeta levels (adjusted for age, gender, and diagnosis) +- standard errors are displayed based on A) the number of APOE epsilon4 allele copies and B) rs509208 genotype.
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	rs509208	FIG	Presence of at least one copy of the epsilon4 allele was significantly associated with increased Abeta burden (Cohen's d = 0.71), as was presence of at least one copy of the minor allele (G) of rs509208 (Cohen's d = 0.52).
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	FIG	These loci appeared to exert additive effects on Abeta levels (panel C): subjects having both risk factors exhibited significantly greater Abeta burden than subjects having either factor in isolation, and no significant epistasis modeled as an interaction was identified
0	NA	NA	NA	TABLE	Selected demographic and clinical characteristics of ADNI participants at the time of PET sca
