0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Substantial inter-individual variability exists in the disease trajectories of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Some decline rapidly while others decline slowly and there are no known explanations for this variability.
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We describe the first genome wide association study to examine rate of cognitive decline in a sample of AD patients with longitudinal measures of cognition
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	The discovery sample was 303 AD cases recruited in the AD Neuroimaging Initiative and the replication sample was 323 AD cases from the Religious Orders Study and Rush Memory and Aging Project.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	In the discovery sample, Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale responses were tested for association with genome-wide SNP data using linear regression.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We tested the 65 most significant SNPs from the discovery sample for association in the replication sample
1	NA	SPON1	rs11023139	ABSTRACT	We identified SNPs in the gene SPON1 whose minor alleles were significantly associated with a more rapid rate of decline (rs11023139, P = 7.0 x 10-11) in the discovery sample.
1	NA	SPON1	rs11606345	ABSTRACT	A SPON1 SNP 5.5 KB upstream was associated with decline in the replication sample (rs11606345, P=0.002)
1	Alzheimer's disease	SPON1	NA	ABSTRACT	SPON1 has not been previously associated with AD risk, but it is plausibly related since the gene product binds to the amyloid precursor protein and inhibits its cleavage by beta-secretase.
1	cognitive defects	SPON1	NA	ABSTRACT	These data suggest that SPON1 may be associated with the differential rate of cognitive decline in AD
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common form of dementia with an enormous public health impact and for which there are no treatments yet available that can slow progression.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Through the efforts of large consortia that pool data from many genome wide association studies (GWAS) of late onset AD, a number of risk genes have been identified and robustly replicated.
0	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	NA	INTRO	Only with samples in excess of 10,000 AD cases and similar numbers of controls, has consensus been reached on the veracity of these risk variants, and with the exception of the APOE epsilon4 allele, these variants exert very modest effects on overall disease risk, generally with odds ratios less than 1.2.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Although these findings have provided valuable insights into AD pathogenesis, the individual predictive value of these small-effect variants is limited
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Although AD is characterized by progressive cognitive deterioration over time, substantial variability exists in the cognitive trajectories of affected individuals.
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	INTRO	There have been a number of previous studies of factors reported to be associated with cognitive decline in AD patients that have not examined genetic factors.
0	cerebral infarctions	NA	NA	INTRO	One suggests that the pathological findings such as neurofibrillary tangles, cerebral infarction, and Lewy bodies that mediate normal and pathological age-related cognitive decline also mediate more rapid cognitive decline in some AD patients.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Other reports have postulated superimposed medical factors to be associated with rate of decline in AD, including diabetes  and other vascular risk factors, kidney function, and muscle strength.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Two recent candidate gene studies tested a limited number of candidate SNPs for association with rate of decline and identified some promising associations
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	INTRO	In this report, we present the first genome wide association analysis of cognitive decline in a sample of AD cases with longitudinal measures of cognition.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	By limiting the analysis to AD cases, we hoped to identify novel variants specific to rate of decline.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	While identifying variants explaining the heterogeneity in rate of decline is important for understanding AD pathogenesis, it may also produce novel therapeutic targets that are distinct from those associated with the presence or absence of AD
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	Data used in the discovery sample were obtained from the AD Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database.
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	METHODS	ADNI was launched in 2003 with the primary goal of testing whether longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), and other serum or CSF biomarkers could serve as proxy markers for the progression of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early AD.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	After several waves of recruitment, ADNI has enrolled over 1000 individuals with AD, MCI or who are normal controls.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Detailed protocols for subject recruitment and biomarker accrual are available at the ADNI website http://www.adni-info.org/.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Briefly, subjects were recruited from over 50 sites across the U.S. and Canada and were measured longitudinally for changes in the brain measured through neuroimaging, biomarkers, and cognitive tests.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	At the time we accessed the ADNI database, there were 243 normal, 235 MCI and 340 AD subjects in total.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	The subset of ADNI subjects analyzed for the discovery sample included 303 individuals of European descent who either had AD at baseline or converted to AD during follow-up and had cognitive data.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	Baseline data was defined as data from the examination with the first clinical diagnosis of AD.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	Seventeen individuals with age at onset < 60 years (indicative of familial AD) were excluded
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	We selected the 65 most promising SNPs from the discovery sample based upon association with the outcome measure (see below) and biological relevance to AD pathology.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	These SNPs were evaluated for replication in an independent sample of 323 AD cases combined from the Religious Orders Study (ROS, 174 participants) and the Rush Memory and Aging Project (MAP, 149 participants).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The ROS and MAP cohorts were developed and are managed by the same group of investigators at the Rush University Medical Center, and information about study design and data collection in these studies has been previously published.
0	dementia	NA	NA	METHODS	Briefly, subjects free of dementia were enrolled and followed annually for cognitive testing that is the same in both studies.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	We limited our analyses to subjects of European descent with a clinical diagnosis of AD after the age of 60
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	In ADNI, AD was defined as a participant meeting NINCDS/ADRDA criteria for probable AD.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Data were collected from participants with MCI at baseline and then at 6-month intervals up to 24 months, followed by a visit at 36 and at 48 months.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	Data were collected from participants with AD at baseline and then at 6, 12, and 24 months (no visit at 18 months or after 24 months, by design).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	Cognitive decline was measured based on longitudinally collected Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog) items.
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	METHODS	The ADAS-cog consists of 11 tasks measuring the disturbances of memory, language, praxis, attention and other cognitive abilities, which are often referred to as the core symptoms of AD.
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	METHODS	ADAS-cog scores range from 0 to 70, with 0 indicating little or no cognitive impairment and 70 indicating severe cognitive impairment
0	Logical Memory II	NA	NA	METHODS	In the replication sample, we analyzed an independent composite measure of global cognition (GCOG) based on 17 tests of cognition including immediate and delayed recall of the East Boston Story and Logical Memory II; immediate and delayed recall and recognition of a 10-item word list; a 15-item Boston Naming Test; verbal fluency; 20-item form of the National Adult Reading Test; digit Span Forward and Backward; Digit Ordering; Number Comparison; the oral form of the Symbol Digit Modalities Test; judgment of line orientation; and Raven's Standard Progressive Matrices.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Total scores of each of these tests were transformed into Z-scores and GCOG was the average of those 17 Z-scores
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	ADNI participants contributed blood samples from which DNA was extracted and were genotyped using the Illumina Human Genome 610 Quad BeadChips.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	In the entire ADNI sample (both cases and controls) 67 individuals were excluded due to a genotyped SNP call rate < 98% and 17 individuals were excluded because the onset of their AD began with age < 60 years.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For analysis, we imputed the genotypes for all 1000 Genomes SNPs using the Markov chain haplotyping software (MACH) and retained those with pairwise linkage disequilibrium (r2 >0.80) for further analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Imputed genotypes were analyzed as allele dosages adjusted by the quality of the imputation.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	SNPs were not analyzed if they had minor allele frequencies (MAF) of less than 4%.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	EIGENSTRAT was used to measure principal components of ancestry (continuous measures summarizing genetic variation that were used to adjust for potential admixture in the sample)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For the ROS/MAP replication cohort, DNA was extracted from blood samples or frozen postmortem brain tissue and genotyped on the Affymetrix Genechip 6.0 platform as previously described.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Only self-declared non-Hispanic Caucasians were genotyped to minimize population heterogeneity.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We applied standard quality control measures for subjects (genotype success rate >95%, genotype-derived gender concordant with reported gender, excess inter/intra-heterozygosity) and for SNPs (HWE p > 0.001; MAF > 0.01, genotype call rate > 0.95; misshap test > 1x10-9) to these data.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In all, 13 individuals were removed due to low SNP call rate.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Subsequently, EIGENSTRAT was used to identify and remove population outliers using default parameters.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	SNP genotypes were imputed using MACH software (version 1.0.16a) and the 1000 Genomes reference panel.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	At the conclusion of the QC pipeline and imputation, 203 ROS and 171 MAP subjects with AD diagnosis, longitudinal cognitive data (2 or greater evaluations), and quality-controlled genotyping were available for the replication analysis
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used linear regression models in the discovery cohort to test for genetic association with ADAS-cog.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We included every available post-diagnosis cognitive score in these models.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	The parameters of interest were the beta coefficient and P-values from an interaction term between the minor allele dosage at each SNP and the time in months since AD diagnosis.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Conceptually, this interaction term tests whether SNP genotype is associated with a different effect of time on cognitive score.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used R version 2.10.0 to evaluate these models with generalized estimating equations to account for the intra-individual correlation in cognitive performance and genotype.
0	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	NA	METHODS	Covariates such as APOE epsilon4 allele count, education, age, gender, and pre-baseline disease duration (for those who already had AD at baseline) were considered and retained in the final models if significant at P < 0.05.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We also included the first three principal components of ancestry in our final models.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To limit the number of tests performed in the replication sample, we created a list of the 65 most promising SNPs based on the strength of statistical evidence for association, including supporting evidence from flanking SNPs
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	In the replication sample, we used general linear mixed models to model global cognition (GCOG) decline over time, adjusted for age at AD diagnosis (P = 0.02), years of education (P < 0.0001), and sex (P = 0.0004).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	From these models, we obtained estimated random slopes for each individual with at least two recorded measures of global cognition.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Using these random slope estimates as outcomes, we then fit linear regression models using PLINK.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Only post-diagnosis GCOG scores were used to compute the slopes
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Finally, we meta-analyzed the results from the discovery and replication samples using sample size-weighted P-values and the direction of the effect using METAL.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Associations were considered significant if P values were less than 5 x 10-8
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	The discovery sample contained 303 AD cases, including 137 who converted during the study period from MCI to AD.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	The 166 individuals who were diagnosed with AD prior to the first study visit had a mean pre-baseline disease duration of 3.3 years (SD = 2.6).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Table 1 shows the baseline characteristics of the discovery and replication samples.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	The replication sample contained a higher percentage of females, had an older mean age at AD onset, and a lower frequency of APOE epsilon4 alleles.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Only sex and pre-baseline disease duration were associated with rate of decline in ADAS-cog (P < 0.05) and were retained as covariates, with males showing a slower rate of decline and individuals who had AD for a longer period prior to baseline showing more rapid decline.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Figure 1 shows Manhattan and QQ plots for ADAS-cog in the discovery cohort.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	There was a significant genomic inflation factor (lambda = 1.079) for the interaction tests for rate of decline, thus all P-values presented were adjusted accordingly.
0	NA	MAN2A1	NA	RESULTS	The strongest associations were with relatively rare (MAF = 3%) SNPs in and near the alpha mannosidase gene (MAN2A1) on chromosome 5 (109,230,839 BP, P = 1.0 x 10-20).
1	NA	SPON1	rs11023139	RESULTS	There were also associated variants in the spondin 1 (SPON1) gene on chromosome 11 (rs11023139, P = 7.0 x 10-11), with minor alleles associated with more rapid progression (3.8 points per year in ADAS-cog).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Figure 2 shows the mean ADAS-cog scores throughout the follow-up period for minor allele carriers vs. non-carriers.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	We subsequently tested this SNP for association in the discovery sample with the rate of decline in other cognitive measures (the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT) and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE)) and also with the rate of amyloid beta-40 (Abeta-40) and Abeta-42 accumulation in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	The AD cases in the replication sample were followed for a mean of 2.5 years post-diagnosis (SD = 2.6 years).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	We compiled a list of 65 of the top SNP associations in ADNI of rate of decline among people with AD.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Table 2 shows the results for these SNPs in the discovery sample.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	None of the 65 SNPs identified in the discovery sample trended towards association with rate of decline in GCOG in the replication sample at P <= 0.05 with the same effect direction.
1	NA	SPON1	rs11023139	RESULTS	Although rs11023139 in SPON1 was not significantly associated with a change in GCOG slope in ROS/MAP, a different SNP located 5.5 KB upstream did show evidence for association with the same effect direction (rs11606345, P = 0.002).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Although these SNPs are in complete LD, the correlation between them is minimal (r2 = 0.002)
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	RESULTS	Finally, we evaluated whether or not there was an association with cognitive decline for all SNPs identified as significantly associated with AD at P < 10-4 (supplementary Table 5 in Naj et al.)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	in the recently published results from the Alzheimer Disease Genetics Consortium (ADGC) study that contains more than 19,490 AD cases and 36,770 controls.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Five of the 447 AD-associated SNPs selected in this manner were associated with rate of decline in ADAS-cog at a significance level of P < 0.05 in the discovery sample.
0	Alzheimer's disease	PVRL2	rs440277	RESULTS	The minor alleles for a SNP in PVRL2 (rs440277, P = 0.003) was associated with a lower risk of developing AD and a slower rate of decline, as was a SNP in CD33 (rs1354106, P = 0.04).
0	NA	gap junction protein, beta 5	NA	RESULTS	In the replication sample, however, there were three SNPs near the gene gap junction protein, beta 5 (GJB5) that were associated with GCOG.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	rs12048230	RESULTS	The strongest effect was from rs12048230 (P = 1.9 x 10-7) and was associated with a slower rate of decline and lower risk of AD in the ADGC samples
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	DISCUSS	This study is the first to search for and discover unbiased associations between genome-wide genetic variants and rate of cognitive decline in AD cases and despite the small sample size, a number of intriguing candidate genes were identified.
1	NA	SPON1	NA	DISCUSS	The most interesting candidate gene we identified is SPON1, both because variants were significantly associated in both discovery and replication cohort, and because of its biological plausibility.
1	NA	SPON1	NA	DISCUSS	The protein SPON1 binds the central terminal domain of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and inhibits its cleavage by the beta-secretase complex (BACE).
1	NA	SPON1	NA	DISCUSS	Although all the common (MAF > 3%) associated SNPs in SPON1 are all intronic, there is a rare (MAF = 1%) missense mutation that is strongly associated with rate of decline.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The most significant associated SNP in the gene was also associated (much less significantly) with more rapid rate of decline in the RAVLT (P = 0.008) and the MMSE (P = 0.003), and the same SNP was associated with a slower rate of Abeta-40 (but not Abeta-42) accumulation in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (P = 0.001).
0	NA	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	DISCUSS	Although the directions of the effects on cognition and Abeta-40 accumulation appear to be opposite, it has previously been suggested that slower accumulation of Abeta in CSF is indicative of more accumulation in the brain
1	NA	EXOC4	NA	DISCUSS	Several of the other significant association results are in genes with functions relevant to neuronal maintenance and neurotransmission (EXOC4, GABRG3, VAT1L), with many involved in Ca2+ signaling and homeostasis (CAMK4, CYCS, NCS1, CACNA1G).
1	Alzheimer's disease	ELMO1	NA	DISCUSS	Other notable candidates for association with variable rate of decline in AD patients are involved in neuronal apoptosis signaling (ELMO1, CYCS), while two are involved in lipid homeostasis (LIPC, OSBPL7)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our results require confirmation in larger datasets, but support the intriguing possibility that previously unknown genetic variants may influence the rate of decline in AD.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Larger cohorts with longitudinal data, providing improved statistical power, are being collected to provide more definitive replication
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The strengths of this analysis were the unbiased nature of the GWAS, a discovery and a replication sample, and a statistical model that allowed us to specifically measure test for a differential rate of decline (rather than cognitive function in general) while maximizing the information content of the data (use of repeated measures).
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our study was limited by small sample sizes in both datasets, and by the fact that the phenotype of cognitive decline was measured and analyzed differently in the discovery and replication cohorts.
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	DISCUSS	A full description of these differences is beyond the scope of this paper, but there is face validity to the assumption that both represent a general measure of overall cognitive ability, since both the ADAS-Cog, and the GCOG incorporate measures on a variety of cognitive domains.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our experience with the ADNI data indicates that the genetic association tests for decline are highly sensitive to the assessment scale used
0	Alzheimer's disease	PPP3R1	rs1868402	DISCUSS	One of the previous candidate gene studies of rate of decline in AD cases identified SNP rs1868402 in a gene that encodes the regulatory sub-unit of protein phosphatase B (PPP3R1) that was not associated with risk for AD or age at onset, but was associated with rate of decline as measured by the clinical dementia rating sum of boxes (CDR-SB) and also tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 (ptau181) levels measured in CSF, a known biomarker for AD.
0	NA	zinc finger protein 224	rs3746319	DISCUSS	The other candidate gene study found two SNPs (rs3746319, rs8192708) associated with global cognition, one the zinc finger protein 224 gene (ZNF224) and one in the gene encoding phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK1).
0	NA	NA	rs1868402	DISCUSS	Examining these 3 SNPs, we found a trend towards association with ADAS-cog for rs1868402 (P = 0.14) in the same direction as the previous report.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The significant results in that study were generated under a dominant model and only in individuals with low levels of Abeta42 in CSF.
0	Alzheimer's disease	PPP3R1	NA	DISCUSS	Given the different phenotypes, subsets of the ADNI data, and statistical and genetic models used for analysis across these studies, the trend towards replication in this analysis substantially increases the evidence that PPP3R1 variants may mediate AD progression through pathways related to ptau181.
0	NA	NA	rs3746319	DISCUSS	In the present study, there was also a trend towards association with rs3746319 (P = 0.08) but not rs8192708 with change in ADAS-cog
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	In summary, we utilized a discovery sample and a replication sample to perform the first genome wide study to assess genetic variants associated with cognitive rate of decline in people with AD.
1	Alzheimer's disease	SPON1	NA	DISCUSS	We identified several SNPs with statistical evidence in genes that have not been previously associated with AD risk, most notably SPON1 which may contain variants whose minor alleles slow disease progression by lowering the amount of extracellular Abeta-40.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	A different, nearby SNP was associated with decline in an independent sample using a different measure of cognition.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Novel genetic associations with rate of decline in AD may provide new insights into the pathophysiology of AD and new targets for therapeutic development
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The Y-axis shows the P-values (on the -log10 scale) for each association test.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The X-axis is the chromosomal position of each SNP.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The gold horizontal line at 5x10-8 indicates genome-wide significance.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The inset shows the Q-Q plot for the adjusted P-values
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The line in each box represents the mean ADAS-cog score at each time point.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The box heights indicate the interquartile range, and the whiskers extend to the most extreme data point which is no more than 1.5 times the interquartile rang
