0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Discovery of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that predict a patient's risk of docetaxel-induced neuropathy would enable treatment individualization to maximize efficacy and avoid unnecessary toxicity.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	The objectives of this analysis were to discover SNPs associated with docetaxel-induced neuropathy and mechanistically validate these associations in preclinical models of drug-induced neuropathy
0	Breast and prostate cancer	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	A genome-wide association study was conducted in metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer patients treated with docetaxel, prednisone and randomized to bevacizumab or placebo on CALGB 90401.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	SNPs were genotyped on the Illumina HumanHap610-Quad platform followed by rigorous quality control.
0	analgesia	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	The inference was conducted on the cumulative dose at occurrence of grade 3+ sensory neuropathy using a cause-specific hazard model that accounted for early treatment discontinuation.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Genes with SNPs significantly associated with neuropathy were knocked down in cellular and mouse models of drug-induced neuropathy
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	498,081 SNPs were analyzed in 623 Caucasian patients, 50 (8%) of whom experienced grade 3+ neuropathy.
0	neuropathy clustered	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	The 1000 SNPs most associated with neuropathy clustered in relevant pathways including neuropathic pain and axonal guidance.
0	NA	VAC14	rs875858	ABSTRACT	A SNP in VAC14 (rs875858) surpassed genome-wide significance (p=2.12x10-8 adjusted p=5.88x10-7).
0	NA	VAC14	NA	ABSTRACT	siRNA knockdown of VAC14 in stem cell derived peripheral neuronal cells increased docetaxel sensitivity as measured by decreased neurite processes (p=0.0015) and branches (p<0.0001).
0	NA	VAC14	NA	ABSTRACT	Prior to docetaxel treatment VAC14 heterozygous mice had greater nociceptive sensitivity than wild-type litter mate controls (p=0.001)
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	VAC14	NA	ABSTRACT	VAC14 should be prioritized for further validation of its potential role as a predictor of docetaxel-induced neuropathy and biomarker for treatment individualization
0	cancers	NA	NA	INTRO	The taxane class includes three US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved chemotherapeutic agents, paclitaxel, docetaxel and cabazitaxel, that have activity in a variety of solid tumors including lung, breast, ovarian, gastric, and prostate cancers.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Taxanes bind to and stabilize microtubules, ultimately inhibiting the mitotic phase of cell cycle development.
0	likely peripheral neuropathy	NA	NA	INTRO	The taxanes and other microtubule-targeting chemotherapeutic agents (e.g., vinca alkaloids) commonly induce peripheral neuropathy of varying severity.
0	likely peripheral neuropathy	NA	NA	INTRO	Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) often presents as a combination of paresthesia and dysesthesia, and can progress to irreversible loss of balance and dexterity with continued treatment.
0	toxicity	NA	NA	INTRO	Due to the progressive nature of the toxicity and its potential effect on long-term quality of life, CIPN can necessitate treatment discontinuation, even in the context of active tumor control
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	INTRO	Patient demographic (i.e., race and history of neuropathy) and treatment (i.e., cumulative dose and drug exposure) factors have been associated with CIPN, but there are currently no effective methods for predicting CIPN risk and/or severity.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of paclitaxel and vincristine-induced CIPN confirm that genetic variation modifies patients' risk.
0	likely peripheral neuropathy	NA	NA	INTRO	The discovery and validation of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that influence risk of docetaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy would be of clinical benefit, enabling identification of high-risk patients in whom taxane use should be avoided if possible.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	INTRO	SNPs that modulate risk of docetaxel-induced neuropathy have been reported from candidate gene studies; however, no study has taken a genome-wide approach.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	INTRO	Based on the previous success of GWAS in discovering SNPs that affect paclitaxel-induced neuropathy, a similar analysis was conducted in a cohort of docetaxel-treated patients to identify genetic predictors of docetaxel-induced neuropathy
0	Breast and prostate cancer	NA	NA	INTRO	GWAS was performed in a large, prospectively enrolled, chemotherapy-naive cohort of metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients who were treated with up to two years of docetaxel and prednisone, with half randomized to concurrent bevacizumab.
0	death	NA	NA	INTRO	As these metastatic patients are at high risk of early treatment discontinuation due to disease progression and/or death, which precludes occurrence of neuropathy, a competing-risks adjusted statistical model was utilized.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	INTRO	Following discovery of a SNP that surpassed genome-wide significance, pharmacogenetic replication between the results of a previously conducted GWAS of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy and this GWAS of docetaxel-induced neuropathy and mechanistic validation of that gene in cellular and animal models were attempted to determine whether genetic predictors of CIPN were similar between the taxanes and to potentially validate clinically useful genetic predictors of docetaxel-induced sensory peripheral neuropath
0	cancers	NA	NA	METHODS	Cancer and Leukeumia Group B (CALGB/Alliance) 90401 was a double-blinded phase III trial that equally randomized men with hormone-refractory prostate cancer to receive docetaxel and prednisone with or without bevacizumab for up to two years.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	All patients enrolled in the CALGB 90401 parent study who provided IRB-approved informed consent for a pharmacogenomic substudy (CALGB 60404) were eligible for this GWAS.
0	Breast and prostate cancer	NA	NA	METHODS	Briefly, patient eligibility included histologically documented adenocarcinoma of the prostate that had progressed while the patient was on hormone deprivation therapy.
0	likely peripheral neuropathy	NA	NA	METHODS	Relevant exclusion criteria included prior chemotherapy or anti-angiogenesis therapy or clinically significant (grade 2+) peripheral neuropathy.
0	toxicity	NA	NA	METHODS	Toxicity data were collected by the Alliance Statistics and Data Center at each treatment cycle on standardized forms that mandated reporting of grade 3+ peripheral sensory neuropathy, as defined by National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 3.0.
0	cranial neuropathy	NA	NA	METHODS	"Additionally, one case was reported as a grade 3 cranial neuropathy event described as ""sensory-facial."""
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	METHODS	Only neuropathy that was considered by the clinician to be possibly, probably, or definitely attributable to treatment, and occurred within 30 days of docetaxel administration, was included in the analysis
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	All patients received docetaxel 75 mg/m2 infused over 1 hour on day 1 of each 21-day cycle with 8 mg oral dexamethasone 12, 3, and 1 hour prior to infusion.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Patients on both arms also received 5 mg oral prednisone twice daily and were randomized to 15 mg/kg bevacizumab or placebo by intravenous infusion on day 1 of each cycle.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Use of growth factor, aspirin, anti-emetics and luteinizing-hormone releasing hormone agonists was under the discretion of the treating physician.
0	febrile neutropenia	NA	NA	METHODS	Docetaxel administration was held for neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1,500 cells/mm3) and the dose was decreased in increments of 10 mg/m2 for hepatic dysfunction, neurotoxicity, gastrointestinal toxicity or febrile neutropenia.
0	toxicity	NA	NA	METHODS	The protocol mandated discontinuation of docetaxel treatment if the patient required more than two docetaxel dose decreases or in the event of specific toxicities or confirmed cancer progression
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A 10-mL sample of whole blood was collected from all patients enrolling on the pharmacogenomic substudy prior to initiation of protocol treatment.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Genotyping and genetic quality control were similar to that previously reported in the CALGB 40101 GWAS.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Genotyping was performed on the HumanHap610-Quad Genotyping BeadChip (Illumina Inc., CA, USA) at the RIKEN Center for Genomic Medicine (Yokohama City, Japan).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Genotype data is available at dbGap (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/gap/cgi-bin/study.cgi?study_id=phs001002.v1.p1) SNPs that were known indeterminate (n=4,106) or unreliable loci (Tech Note: Infinium  Genotyping Data Analysis, 2007) and patients with SNP call rate <95% were excluded.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Eigensoft version 3.0 was used to visualize genetic ancestry for the 790 evaluable patients to identify a genetic European population (n=623) in which the analysis was conducted.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Additional SNPs were excluded for low call rate (<99%), low minor allele frequency (<0.05), p-value of Hardy-Weinberg distribution <10-8 or non-autosomal loci, leaving 498,081 SNPs for analysis (Supplementary Figure 1)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Commercially available human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived peripheral neurons (Peri.4U) were purchased from Axiogenesis (Cologne, Germany) and plated at 1 x 104 cells/well in 100 muL media as per manufactures' instructions.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Figure 3A illustrates the scheme for this experiment.
0	NA	muM	NA	METHODS	Dharmacon Accell technology (GE Dharmacon, Lafayette, CO, USA) was applied at 4 hours post-plating using 1 muM human siVAC14 SMARTpool or the non-targeting control (NTC).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	24 hours later, transfection media was exchanged for media containing 0.17% DMSO vehicle control and either docetaxel (LKT Laboratories Inc., St. Paul, MN) or paclitaxel (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The drugs were prepared in a darkened hood by dissolving powder in 100% DMSO to obtain a stock solution of 58.4 mM.
0	NA	muM	NA	METHODS	Stock drug was serially diluted in media for final dosing concentrations ranging from 10 pM to 1 muM, increasing by factors of ten.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Control wells were treated with 0.17% final concentration of DMSO to match drug treatments.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	After 24 or 48 hour drug treatments, neurons were stained with 0.3 ng/mL Hoechst 33342 (Sigma-Aldrich) and 1.5 mug/mL Calcein AM (Molecular Probes, Life Technologies Inc.) and imaged at 10x magnification using an ImageXpress Micro imaging microscope (Molecular Devices, LLC, Sunnyvale, CA) at the University of Chicago Cellular Screening Center.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Neurite changes were determined by individual cell measurements of relative total neurite outgrowth, relative number of processes, relative number of branches, mean/median/max process length, relative cell body area, relative straightness and relative mean outgrowth intensity.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The data represents triplicate experiments making measurements on more than 1000 cells per treatment as previously described.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Two wells of transfected cells were collected per timepoint using the Cells-to-Ct kit (Ambion, Life Technologies Inc., Carlsbad, CA) and reversed transcribed as per kit instructions.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	METHODS	Quantitative real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was performed using Taqman primers (Fisher Scientific LLC, Hanover Park, IL) for VAC14 (Hs00947931_m1) and compared to human beta-2-microglobulin (NM_004048.2) housekeeping gene at 24, 48 and 72 hours post-transfection (as previously described
0	NA	VAC14	NA	METHODS	Mice bred for VAC14 heterozygosity (VAC14+/-) and VAC14 wild-type litter mates (VAC14+/+) on C57/BL6 background were obtained from Lois Weisman at University of Michigan and acclimated to living conditions at University of Maryland.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Mice 3-5 months of age were randomly assigned to docetaxel or placebo treatment, with 6-7 mice in each treatment arm.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The entire experiment was conducted separately in male and female mice.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Intraperitoneal administration of docetaxel 2 mg/kg or saline vehicle was administered on days 1, 3, 5, and 7
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Behavioral testing for the development of increased mechanical sensitivity took place at baseline (prior to treatment), day 5 (after two doses), day 8 (24 hours after the fourth dose), and weekly for 3 additional assessments.
0	von Smitten	NA	NA	METHODS	Mechanical sensitivity was measured in mice from both treatment arms simultaneously by a blinded individual using von Frey filaments, as previously described.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Briefly, mice were placed in individual Plexiglas  cubes on an elevated wire mesh platform and allowed to acclimate for approximately one hour, when grooming and exploration behaviors ended.
0	von Frey filaments	NA	NA	METHODS	A series of von Frey filaments (Touch Test Sensory Evaluator Kit, myNeurolab.com, St. Louis, MO), with bending forces of 0.04-2.0 g, were applied to the plantar surface of the left hind paw until the filament just bent and was held in place for 5 seconds or until the mouse withdrew its paw.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A positive response was defined as a brisk withdrawal, with or without shaking or licking, of the hind paw during or immediately upon removal of the filament application.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Each filament was tested 5 times on each hind paw starting with the 0.4 g filament.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	If the 0.4 g filament elicited 3 positive responses out of 5 trials, then testing continued moving downward through the series to the 0.04 g filament and the number of withdrawals was recorded for each filament.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	If the 0.4 g filament did not elicit 3 positive responses, then testing continued moving upward through the series to the 2.0 g filament and the number of withdrawals was recorded for each filament.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Threshold was defined as the filament with the lowest bending force that elicited at least 3 positive responses out of 5 trials
0	likely peripheral neuropathy	NA	NA	METHODS	The primary endpoint for GWAS analysis was the cumulative docetaxel dose (mg/m2) at first report of treatment-related grade 3+ sensory peripheral neuropathy.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Patients who did not complete two years of therapy due to progression/death, treatment-terminating adverse event, or any other reason were informatively censored at the cumulative docetaxel dose received; therefore, the statistical analysis was conducted within a competing-risk model framework with the inference conducted on the basis of cause-specific hazard.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	METHODS	Cumulative incidence curves were constructed to visualize the influence of each of the top three hits with neuropathy incidence.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	METHODS	The relationship between each SNP and neuropathy was adjusted for clinical covariates with putative relevance to neuropathy risk: diabetes (reported history of diabetes or current diabetes treatment vs. none), age (continuous), body mass index (BMI) (<= 30 kg/m2 vs. > 30 kg/m2), and treatment arm (bevacizumab vs. placebo), regardless of whether the covariate was significantly associated with neuropathy in this cohort
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	METHODS	Cross-study clinical replication of the SNP with the greatest association with neuropathy was attempted in a cohort of Caucasian breast cancer patients treated with paclitaxel on the CALGB 40101 clinical trial.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	METHODS	GWAS of the cumulative paclitaxel dose at occurrence of grade 2+ neuropathy has previously been published.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	FGD4	rs10771973	METHODS	Additionally, a SNP predictive of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy risk (rs10771973, FGD4) discovered and replicated in the CALGB 40101 GWAS was interrogated in the GWAS results from the docetaxel-treated Caucasian patients on CALGB 90401 to assess whether the SNPs that influence neuropathy risk are similar between the two taxanes
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Statistical analyses were performed by Alliance statisticians on a database locked on August 15, 2012.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	All analyses were conducted using the R [R]statistical environment version 3.1.1 or higher, using extension packages survival (version 2.37-7), GenABEL (version 1.8-0), cmprsk (version 2.2-7) and interval (version 1.1-0.1).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To search for cumulative genetic effects, the genes that mapped to the top 1000 SNPs were included in a pathway enrichment analysis using the Ingenuity Pathway Analysis version 17199142 (Ingenuity  Systems, Inc, www.ingenuity.com) internal algorithm.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Peripheral neuronal cell phenotypes (outgrowth, processes, branching, etc.)
0	NA	VAC14	NA	METHODS	measured after treatment with increasing docetaxel and paclitaxel concentrations were compared between VAC14 siRNA and non-targeted control siRNA using two-way ANOVA
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Mouse mechanical sensitivity thresholds were compared prior to docetaxel treatment between VAC14+/+ and VAC14+/- mice using an interval-censored analysis with the minimum fiber size inducing a response as the phenotype.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The genotype groups in the untreated mice were compared again on day 28.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The same method was used to compare sensitivity thresholds of docetaxel treated and untreated mice following treatment on day 8.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To assess whether VAC14+/- mice were more sensitive to docetaxel-induced changes in mechanical stimuli, parametric survival regression was used to test for the effect of VAC14 by treatment interaction on withdrawal threshold on day 8, after treatment was completed
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The CALGB/Alliance 90401 parent study enrolled 1,050 patients, of whom 863 provided consent and registered for the pharmacogenomics substudy CALGB 60604 (CALGB is now a part of the Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The GWAS included 790 patients, of whom only the 616 self-reported, genetically defined Europeans receiving treatment were included in the analysis to minimize confounding from population substructure (Supplementary Figure 1).
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	RESULTS	Demographic characteristics for the discovery cohort including baseline covariates potentially relevant to treatment-induced neuropathy risk are reported in Table 1.
0	diabetes	NA	NA	RESULTS	The median age was 69 years, body mass index (BMI) was 29 kg/m2, and 97 patients (16%) had a history of diabetes.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Randomization was nearly even to the bevacizumab (314 patients, 51%) and placebo (302, 49%) arms
0	analgesia	NA	NA	RESULTS	The overall incidence of grade 3+ sensory neuropathy was 8.1% (50/616).
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	RESULTS	The 566 patients who did not experience neuropathy were classified as having either completed treatment without neuropathy (3.9%) or categorized based on their reason for discontinuation: death/progression (41.1%), non-CIPN treatment terminating adverse event (30.2%) or withdrawal/other (16.7%) (Supplementary Table 1).
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	RESULTS	The risk of neuropathy was not significantly different in the bevacizumab and placebo arms (p=0.11), which were pooled for analysis
0	analgesia	NA	NA	RESULTS	GWAS analysis was performed on the cumulative docetaxel dose (mg/m2) at first report of treatment-induced grade 3+ sensory peripheral neuropathy (Figure 1).
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	RESULTS	The ten most significant SNPs, ranked according to the unadjusted p-value for cause-specific association with neuropathy, are listed in Table 2 with rsID, gene annotation, and hazard ratios before and after adjustment (Top 1000 SNPs in Supplementary Table 2).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	One SNP surpassed Bonferonni-corrected significance (0.05/498,022=1.004x10-7).
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	VAC14	rs875858	RESULTS	This is an intronic SNP in the VAC14 gene (rs875858, minor allele frequency=0.056), which increased neuropathy risk (HR=3.60, 95%CI: 2.21-5.84, p=2.12x10-8, Figure 2A).
1	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	rs11017056	RESULTS	The second and third most strongly associated SNPs were an intergenic SNP (rs11017056, MAF=0.223, HR=2.61, 95%CI: 1.77-3.84, p=3.84x10-7) and an intronic SNP in the ATP8A2 gene (rs1326116, MAF=0.194, HR=2.77, 95%CI: 1.79-4.27, p=1.77x10-6), both of which increased neuropathy risk (Figures 2B and 2C)
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	RESULTS	The associations of all SNPs were then adjusted for treatment arm and several clinical covariates previously reported to be relevant to neuropathy risk including diabetes, age, and BMI.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	RESULTS	In this particular cohort, among the clinical covariates only increasing age (p=0.0003) was significantly associated with neuropathy, though increasing BMI showed a trend toward association (p=0.05).
0	NA	VAC14	NA	RESULTS	Covariate adjustment did not substantially affect the results, though the association of VAC14 fell below the Bonferonni-corrected significance threshold after adjustment (p=5.88 x10-7).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The top 1000 SNPs mapped to 240 unique genes, which were included in the pathway analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The three most significantly enriched pathways in the GWAS are displayed in Supplementary Table 3.
0	neuropathic pain	NA	NA	RESULTS	Notably, two of these enriched pathways are relevant to CIPN; Axonal Guidance (p=1.20x10-4) and Neuropathic Pain Signaling in Dorsal Horn Neurons (p=6.03x10-3)
0	Breast and prostate cancer	NA	NA	RESULTS	Due to the absence of a large cohort of docetaxel-treated patients with prostate cancer in which to perform replication, and our interest in assessing whether taxanes share genetic predictors of neuropathy risk, cross-study pharmacogenetic replication was attempted in a cohort of paclitaxel-treated Caucasian patients with breast cancer enrolled on CALGB (Alliance 40101).
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	VAC14	rs875858	RESULTS	The VAC14 SNP (rs875858) discovered in our docetaxel-induced neuropathy GWAS was not associated with paclitaxel-induced neuropathy in the 40101 study (p=0.70).
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	FGD4	rs10771973	RESULTS	In addition, SNPs that were discovered in previously published GWAS of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy (FGD4 (rs10771973) p=0.39, EPHA4 (rs17348202) p=0.76, EPHA5 (rs7349683) p=0.15, intergenic (rs3125923) p=0.057, FCAMR (rs1856746) p=0.25) or candidate SNP studies of docetaxel-induced neuropathy (GSTP1 Ala114Val (rs1138272) p=0.98, ABCB1 1236C>T (rs1128503) p=0.62, ABCB1 (rs4148738) p=0.90, ABCB1 3435C>T (rs1045642) p=0.80) were not associated with docetaxel-induced neuropathy occurrence in the CALGB 90401 patients.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	RESULTS	Finally, when comparing the top SNPs from taxane-induced neuropathy GWAS performed within CALGB 90401 (docetaxel) and 40101 (paclitaxel), there was no statistical evidence that the degree of overlap was greater than would be expected by random chance (data not shown)
0	NA	VAC14	NA	RESULTS	To determine the effect of VAC14 knockdown on neuronal sensitivity to docetaxel and paclitaxel, commercially available human iPSC-derived peripheral neurons (Peri4.U) were utilized.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	RESULTS	At the time of image analysis, which is 24 and 48 hours post drug treatment (48 and 72 h post transfection), expression of VAC14 in neurons treated with 1 muM siRNA had decreased to 54 and 44%, respectively, as compared to control cells treated with a non-targeting siRNA (Figure 3B).
0	NA	VAC14	NA	RESULTS	The VAC14 siRNA knockdown at 24 hours post-docetaxel treatment did not affect relative total outgrowth (Figure 3C) in the peripheral neurons but resulted in significantly greater sensitivity to docetaxel as measured by relative number of processes (p=0.0015, Figure 3D) and relative number of branches (p<0.0001, Figure 3E) Similar effects were found in preliminary studies of VAC14 knockdown in a human IPSC-derived cortical neuron, iCell  Neurons measured 48 hours after treatment (Cellular Dynamics International, Madison, WI) (data not shown).
0	NA	VAC14	NA	RESULTS	In contrast, VAC14 siRNA knockdown significantly decreased peripheral neuronal cell sensitivity to paclitaxel as measured by these same cellular phenotypes (all p<0.05, Figure 3F-3H).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Other morphological characteristics including mean process length, mean outgrowth intensity and relative straightness were also measured for docetaxel and paclitaxel (Supplementary Figure 2).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	We found a decreased sensitivity to docetaxel and paclitaxel when measuring mean process length and for mean outgrowth intensity for paclitaxel only.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	There was no difference in measurements of relative straightness (data not shown)
0	von Frey filaments	NA	NA	RESULTS	Prior to receiving docetaxel treatment, VAC14+/- heterozygous mice were more sensitive than wild type VAC14+/+ mice to mechanical stimuli using von Frey filaments (p=0.001, Supplementary Figure 3).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	When stratified by gender this effect was significant in male mice (p=0.002) but not female mice (p=0.16), however, there was no statistically significant gender interaction (p=0.10).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The difference in sensitivity to mechanical stimuli between genotype groups at baseline was attenuated over the course of the experiment in untreated mice, as there was no evidence of a difference between these groups from at the end of the experiment (p=0.23).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	As expected, 8 days of docetaxel treatment increased sensitivity to mechanical stimuli compared to untreated control mice, regardless of mouse genotype (p<0.0001, Figure 4).
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	RESULTS	Comparing across genotype groups, there was no difference between VAC14+/- and VAC14+/+ mice in docetaxel-induced increase in threshold sensitivity to mechanical stimuli at day 8 (p=0.18) or day 14 (p=0.80) when the neuropathy was at its maximum
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	VAC14	rs875858	DISCUSS	GWAS in a large cohort of mCRPC patients receiving docetaxel treatment identified an intronic SNP (rs875858) within VAC14 that was associated with increase neuropathy risk (HR=3.60).
0	neurodegenerative disease	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	VAC14 has been directly linked to neurodegeneration in animal models and linked to hereditary neuropathy conditions in humans.
0	breast cancer	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The lack of clinical replication in a cohort of paclitaxel-treated breast cancer patients is perhaps due to known differences between the two taxanes, including neuropathy profile.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	Distinct genetic modifiers of cellular sensitivity to paclitaxel and docetaxel have been previously reported in in vitro models and the results of cellular sensitivity experiments demonstrating that VAC14 knockdown enhances sensitivity of peripheral neurons to docetaxel but not paclitaxel for relative number of processes and relative branching, further support this hypothesis.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Given the distinct genetic effects on neuronal sensitivity to docetaxel and paclitaxel it is conceivable that the polymorphisms that affect neuropathy risk also differ between the two taxanes.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	FGD4	NA	DISCUSS	This would be consistent with the lack of cross-study replication, including the lack of association with docetaxel-induced neuropathy occurrence in this analysis for SNPs (FGD4, EPHA4 and EPHA5) that have been previously discovered, and in some cases replicated, in paclitaxel-induced neuropathy GWAS.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Alternatively, heterogeneity between the patient cohorts, including differences in gender, age, and functional status, or differences in the phenotype (grade 2+ vs. grade 3+), may explain the lack of replication across the clinical GWAS.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	ABCB1	NA	DISCUSS	This GWAS was also not able to replicate previously reported associations between docetaxel-induced neuropathy and SNPs in ABCB1 or GSTP1 reported in previous candidate SNP studies, similar to the failure of paclitaxel GWAS to replicate associations with candidate SNPs including CYP2C8*3
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	The mechanistic importance of VAC14 in docetaxel-induced neuropathy was tested in two pre-clinical models of CIPN.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	Knockdown of VAC14 in the peripheral neuronal cell model (Peri.4U) increased sensitivity to docetaxel treatment as measured by decreased neurite number of processes and neurite branching.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	Interestingly, knockdown of VAC14 seemed to decrease cellular sensitivity to paclitaxel treatment for these morphological characteristics suggesting that this gene may play an important role in the damage to processes and branching induced by docetaxel but not paclitaxel.
0	neuronal loss	NA	NA	DISCUSS	A similar model of human neuronal cell sensitivity that utilizes induced pluripotent cortical neurons (iCell  Neurons) has previously been used for mechanistic validation of GWAS hits that increases risk of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy and vincristine-induced neuropathy.
0	pheochromocytoma	NA	NA	DISCUSS	These human model systems have several advantages over the use of rodent cell lines such as rat pheochromocytoma cell lines, PC12 or NS1.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	One major limitation of rodent cell lines is the required treatment with nerve growth factor to initiate nerve outgrowth, which confounds the evaluation of drug treatment effects
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	To our knowledge this is the first study to attempt mechanistic validation of a finding from a clinical GWAS in an animal model of CIPN.
0	likely peripheral neuropathy	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The Von Frey Filament Test is a well-established rodent model to test sensitivity to nociceptive stimuli, as a surrogate for peripheral neuropathy, that is commonly used for mechanistic investigation of neuropathy.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	Unlike the cell experiment, VAC14 heterozygous mice were not more sensitive than wild-type littermates to the effect of docetaxel, but were more sensitive to mechanical stimuli prior to treatment.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The enhanced sensitivity in the heterozygous mice at baseline was attenuated over time in the untreated cohort, in both male and female mice.
0	numbness	NA	NA	DISCUSS	It is possible that these mice acclimate to the discomfort of the mechanical stimuli or they may be experiencing numbness, another characteristic symptom of peripheral neuropathy in taxane-treated patients, though additional experiments would be required to test either hypothesis.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	It is unclear from these findings whether patients with VAC14 polymorphisms have subclinical neuropathy at baseline that is expressed by treatment, as suggested by the mouse data, or whether they are similar at baseline and have greater neuropathy development from docetaxel treatment.
0	subclinical neuropathy	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	Subjective testing that is sensitive for subclinical neuropathy, perhaps with electrophysiological or quantitative sensory assessment, in untreated patients with wild-type and polymorphic VAC14 may help resolve this conundrum
0	NA	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	The VAC14 protein provides a scaffold for the lipid kinase PIKfyve and its positive regulator, FIG4.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	These proteins reside in a complex that is responsible for the generation of the signaling lipids phosphatidylinositol -bisphosphate (PIP2) and PI5P.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	These lipids are essential in multiple tissues.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The inability of VAC14-/- homozygous mice to survive beyond 1-2 days after birth necessitated the use of VAC14+/- heterozygous mice.
0	neurodegenerative disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	On autopsy AC14-/- homozygous mice exhibit massive neurodegeneration with cell bodies in the central and peripheral nervous system containing large vacuoles.
0	neurodegenerative disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	This neurodegeneration and vacuolization are similar to that found in FIG4 null mice, suggesting that variation in these genes is likely to phenocopy in humans as well as in mice.
0	analgesia	NA	NA	DISCUSS	A rare mutation in the FIG4 gene is known to cause a subtype of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, a hereditary neuropathy syndrome.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	FGD4	rs10771973	DISCUSS	Interestingly, the CALGB 40101 paclitaxel-induced neuropathy GWAS discovered and replicated an association for a SNP in FGD4 (rs10771973), another gene known to cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, though this variant was not associated with docetaxel-induced neuropathy in our CALGB 90401 cohort
0	NA	VAC14	rs875858	DISCUSS	The SNP (rs875858) discovered in this GWAS lies within an intron of the VAC14 gene.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	It is unclear what effect, if any, this individual SNP has on VAC14 expression or activity in the peripheral neuron.
0	NA	VAC14	rs875858	DISCUSS	In the GTEx database there is no association between rs875858 and VAC14 gene expression in the tibial nerve tissue, though the power of this analysis is limited by the relatively small number of samples (n=256) and low minor allele frequency (MAF=0.06) of this SNP http://www.gtexportal.org/home/eqtls/bySnp?snpId=rs875858&tissueName=Nerve_Tibial.
0	NA	IL34	rs875858	DISCUSS	In the larger DGN cohort (n=922), rs875858 is highly associated with IL34 (p=4e-7) expression in whole blood.
0	analgesia	IL-34	NA	DISCUSS	IL-34 is structurally similar to colony-stimulating factor 1 and both are ligands of the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor, which has recently been identified as an efficacious target in mouse models of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, providing an alternative plausible biological mechanism for this association.
0	NA	NA	rs875858	DISCUSS	Finally, it is conceivable that this SNP is not functionally relevant but instead is a genetic marker of a different causative SNP; however, rs875858 lies in a region of low linkage disequilibrium
1	Neurological and Communication Disorders	ATP8A2	rs1326116	DISCUSS	The SNP (rs1326116) with the third strongest association with docetaxel-induced neuropathy is an intronic polymorphism in the ATP8A2 gene, which encodes ATP8A2, a P4 ATPase.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The P-type ATPases are a superfamily of proteins that translocate phospholipids between the two leaflets of cellular lipid bilayers.
0	neurodegenerative disease	ATP8A2	NA	DISCUSS	Several lines of evidence link ATP8A2 to neurological development and function; in vitro data that ATP8A2 overexpression enhances neurite outgrowth, animal data that ATP8A2 mutations cause overt progressive neurodegeneration in Wabbler-lethal mice by disrupting axonal transport and polarity, and case reports of ATP8A2 mutations causing severe neurological phenotypes in patients
0	neuropathic pain	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The three pathways most highly enriched in the GWAS results include axonal guidance and neuropathic pain signaling, both of which have obvious relevance to taxane-induced peripheral neuropathy.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Growth and maintenance of neuronal axons requires organization of microtubules into a cytoskeleton.
0	abnormal sensations	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Taxanes stabilize microtubules, potentially interfering with cytoskeletal organization leading to the overt neuropathic symptoms reported by patients.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Enrichment in a similar pathway, axonal outgrowth, was reported in a secondary analysis of a paclitaxel-induced neuropathy GWAS, suggesting that these two studies are identifying similar genetic signatures, despite the lack of overlap of individual SNPs in the top 1000 hits.
0	neuropathic pain	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Neuropathic pain is one of the characteristic clinical manifestations of taxane-induced neuropathy, in addition to sensory and motor components.
0	neuropathic pain	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Neuropathic pain signaling in the dorsal horn neurons may contribute to taxane-induced peripheral neuropathy via a higher propensity for development of central sensitization
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The primary limitation of this study is the lack of availability of an independent clinical trial cohort of docetaxel-treated patients for pharmacogenetic replication.
0	likely peripheral neuropathy	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Another limitation is the reliance on the protocol-specified collection of severe peripheral neuropathy (grade 3 or higher), rather than systematic collection across all toxicity grades.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	DISCUSS	It is possible that some patients experienced grade 2 neuropathy without progressing to grade 3, and thus were not included as neuropathy events in this analysis.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Furthermore, ordinal analysis across all neuropathy grades (0-4) would have brought greater statistical power and may have identified a distinct set of SNPs that predict neuropathy severity, similar to the paclitaxel-induced neuropathy GWAS findings in CALGB (Alliance) 40101.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	rs875858	DISCUSS	The lack of grade 1 or 2 neuropathy data collection may explain the absence of events in the patients homozygous for the rs875858 SNP.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	However, two of these patients discontinued docetaxel treatment quite early, after 6 (442 mg/m2) and 8 (561 mg/m2) cycles for progression and grade 3 nausea/vomiting, respectively.
0	toxicity	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The third patient was discontinued after 26 cycles (1,746 mg/m2) for a constellation of grade 3 toxicities including cough, dyspnea, fatigue, febrile neutropenia, and pneumonitis, without any documentation of peripheral neuropathy during treatment.
0	likely peripheral neuropathy	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The collection of DNA and comprehensive baseline and outcomes data, including accurate assessment of timing and severity of peripheral neuropathy, in other large clinical cohorts will allow for independent replication of our findings
0	likely peripheral neuropathy	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	In conclusion, GWAS of a prospectively enrolled patient cohort identified a SNP in VAC14 that predicts sensitivity to docetaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	VAC14	NA	DISCUSS	VAC14 heterozygous mice were subsequently shown to be more sensitive to nociceptive stimuli at baseline, and peripheral neuronal cell (Peri.4U) sensitivity to docetaxel is enhanced after VAC14 knockdown, providing mechanistic validation of the relevance of VAC14 to docetaxel-induced neuropathy.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	DISCUSS	However, the relatively low hazard ratio of this SNP suggests that no single variant or gene is responsible for dictating neuropathy sensitivity or will be clinically useful for personalizing docetaxel treatment.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	DISCUSS	This is consistent with the multifactorial nature of neuropathy that depends on both drug exposure and a variety of patient factors, including age and BMI, which were associated with neuropathy occurrence in this cohort.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Replication of the influence of our top candidate SNPs on neuropathy risk in a similar clinical trial cohort of docetaxel-treated mCRPC patients is of great interest to validate the role of these genes and provide support for further investigation into this mechanism for chemotherapy-induced neuropathy prevention or treatment
0	analgesia	NA	NA	FIG	Manhattan plot displaying the unadjusted p-value for the association of cumulative docetaxel dose at grade 3+ sensory neuropathy for all SNPs that passed quality control (n=498,022).
0	NA	NA	rs875858	FIG	One SNP (rs875858) surpassed the Bonferonni-corrected significance threshold of 1.0x10-7
1	Neurological and Communication Disorders	VAC14	rs875858	FIG	Cumulative incidence curve of docetaxel dose at grade 3+ neuropathy occurrence stratified by genotype for the top three hits: A) a VAC14 intronic SNP (rs875858), B) an intergenic SNP (rs11017056), and C) an ATP8A2 intronic SNP (rs1326116).
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	VAC14	NA	FIG	In each case, carrying the variant allele increased neuropathy risk compared to wild-type patients, though there were too few patients who were homozygous for the rare VAC14 variant (n=3) to draw meaningful conclusions in this group
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	A) Peripheral neuron (Peri.4U) experimental scheme illustrating timing of treatment and imaging.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	FIG	B) Relative VAC14 expression at 24, 48 and 72 hours post-transfection with siVAC14 compared to non-targeting control (NTC) produced a steady decline of VAC14 expression over time.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The neurite outgrowth changes after 24 hours docetaxel (48 hours knockdown) showed no significance as measured by C) total outgrowth but did result in greater sensitivity to docetaxel in D) relative number of processes and E) relative number of branches.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	FIG	Alternatively, VAC14 knockdown decreased peripheral neuronal cell sensitivity to paclitaxel, 3F-3H.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	FIG	Open circle represent data from VAC14 siRNA and closed circle from NTC siRNA.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Neurite parameters measured with MetaXPress  software were averaged from 3 independent experiments.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Error bars represent the standard error of the mean from three independent transfection experiments.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	NTC = non-targeting control, UT= untransfected control
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The withdrawal threshold is defined as the lightest fiber weight that caused each mouse to withdraw their hind paw at least three times out of five.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Each mouse has a withdrawal threshold at each time-point in the study.
0	NA	VAC14	NA	FIG	The mean withdrawal threshold is the average of 12-14 mice (6-7 for each gender) for each treatment condition (VAC14 genotype and docetaxel treatment).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Docetaxel- treated mice of either genotype had greater hindpaw withdrawal sensitivity following the end of treatment at day 8 compared to the untreated control mice (p<0.0001).
0	NA	VAC14	NA	FIG	There was no significant difference in the docetaxel-induced increase in withdrawal sensitivity comparing VAC14 heterozygous and wild-type mice (p=0.18)
0	analgesia	NA	NA	SUPPL	The taxanes are a class of chemotherapeutic agents that are commonly associated with treatment-limiting peripheral sensory neuropathy.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	SUPPL	Genetic predictors of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy have been discovered but little is known about whether similar genetic factors are associated with risk of docetaxel-induced neuropathy.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	SUPPL	Discovery of genetic predictors of docetaxel-induced neuropathy could inform personalized treatment decisions to maximize efficacy and avoid unnecessary toxicity.
0	hormone refractory prostate cancer	NA	NA	SUPPL	We conducted a genome-wide association study in a large cohort of Caucasian men with hormone refractory prostate cancer treated with docetaxel.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	VAC14	NA	SUPPL	One single nucleotide polymorphism in VAC14 that was significantly associated with docetaxel-induced neuropathy was then mechanistically validated in cellular and animal models of neurotoxicity.
0	likely peripheral neuropathy	NA	NA	SUPPL	These finding suggest that distinct genetic variants influence risk of peripheral neuropathy from paclitaxel and docetaxel.
0	Neurological and Communication Disorders	NA	NA	SUPPL	The genetic variant identified in this study could be useful for understanding the mechanism of docetaxel-induced neuropathy and may be informative for avoiding docetaxel treatment in patients at elevated neuropathy risk
