0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Categorizing people with late-onset Alzheimer's disease into biologically coherent subgroups is important for personalized medicine.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We evaluated data from five studies (total n=4 050, of whom 2 431 had genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We assigned people to cognitively-defined subgroups on the basis of relative performance in memory, executive functioning, visuospatial functioning, and language at the time of Alzheimer's disease diagnosis.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We compared genotype frequencies for each subgroup to those from cognitively normal elderly controls.
0	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	NA	ABSTRACT	We focused on APOE and on SNPs with p<10-5 and odds ratios more extreme than those previously reported for Alzheimer's disease (<0.77 or >1.30).
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	There was substantial variation across studies in the proportions of people in each subgroup.
0	memory impairment	apolipoprotein E	NA	ABSTRACT	In each study, higher proportions of people with isolated substantial relative memory impairment had >=1 APOE epsilon4 allele than any other subgroup (overall p= 1.5 x 10-27).
0	NA	p<10-5	NA	ABSTRACT	Across subgroups, there were 33 novel suggestive loci across the genome with p<10-5 and an extreme OR compared to controls, of which none had statistical evidence of heterogeneity and 30 had ORs in the same direction across all datasets.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	These data support the biological coherence of cognitively-defined subgroups and nominate novel genetic loci
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Clinical heterogeneity is common among people with late-onset Alzheimer's disease; see for a review.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Categorizing people with a condition into biologically coherent subgroups is an important personalized medicine strategy.
0	neurodegenerative disease	NA	NA	INTRO	This strategy is particularly recommended for neurodegenerative conditions.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Once biologically coherent subgroups are identified, further investigations may elucidate subgroup-specific treatments
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Genetic data may be useful for determining whether a proposed categorization strategy results in biologically coherent subgroups; see the Box
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	We have developed an approach for categorizing people with late-onset Alzheimer's disease based on relative performance across cognitive domains.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	We determine each person's average performance at diagnosis across memory, executive functioning, language, and visuospatial ability, and consider relative impairments in each domain from that average.
0	amyloid angiopathy	apolipoprotein E	NA	INTRO	We previously evaluated one study's data and showed that our strategy identified a subgroup with higher degrees of amyloid angiopathy and higher proportions with >=1 APOE epsilon4 allele
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Here we evaluate data from five studies with people with late-onset Alzheimer's disease and cognitively normal elderly controls.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	We used modern psychometric approaches to co-calibrate cognitive scores.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	We used scores to identify subgroups.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	We used genetic data to determine whether our categorization identifies biologically coherent subgroups
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	We used data from the Adult Changes in Thought (ACT) study, the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), the Rush Memory and Aging Project (MAP) and Religious Orders Study (ROS), and the University of Pittsburgh Alzheimer Disease Research Center (PITT).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	Each study has published widely, and their genetic data are included in large analyses of late-onset Alzheimer's disease.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	All five studies use the same research criteria to define clinical Alzheimer's disease.
0	dementia	NA	NA	METHODS	Three studies (ACT, MAP, and ROS) are prospective cohort studies that enroll cognitively normal elderly individuals and follow them to identify incident dementia cases.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	For these, we analyzed cognitive data from the visit with the incident clinical Alzheimer's disease diagnosis.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Two studies (ADNI and PITT) are clinic-based research cohort studies.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	For those studies we analyzed cognitive data from the first study visit for people with prevalent Alzheimer's disease; we limited inclusion to those with Clinical Dementia Rating Scale of 0.5 or 1, indicating mild Alzheimer's disease.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	For people from ADNI or PITT who did not initially have Alzheimer's disease, we analyzed cognitive data from the incident Alzheimer's disease visit.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The University of Washington IRB approved these secondary analyses of coded data
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	In each study, we included people diagnosed with late-onset Alzheimer's disease as defined by research criteria.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used data from everyone for all analyses other than genetic analyses; we limited those to self-reported whites.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For genetic analyses we also used data from self-reported white cognitively normal elderly controls from each study.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Details on those cohorts are included in reports from the parent studies and in Supplemental Text 6 (derived from Lambert et al.)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Staff from each study administered a comprehensive neuropsychological test battery that included assessment of memory, executive functioning, language, and visuospatial functioning.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	"We obtained granular (""item-level"") data from each parent study."
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	"Each stimulus administered to a participant was deemed an ""item""."
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	As outlined in our previous paper, every item administered in each study was considered by our panel of experts (JM, ET, AJS).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Our panel designated each item as primarily a measure of memory, executive functioning, language, visuospatial functioning, or none of these.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	They also assigned items to theory-driven subdomains
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	"We carefully considered items where the same stimulus was administered to participants across different studies to identify ""anchor items"" that could anchor metrics across studies."
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We reviewed response categories recorded by each study for these overlapping items to ensure that consistent scoring was used across studies.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We identified anchor items as those overlapping items with identical scoring across studies.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used bifactor models in Mplus to co-calibrate separate scores for memory, executive functioning, language, and visuospatial functioning
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Details of item assignments, psychometric analyses in each study, and co-calibration methodology across studies are provided in Supplemental Texts 1, 2, and 5.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Code is available from the authors upon request
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	We used the ACT sample of people with incident Alzheimer's disease as our reference population for the purpose of scaling domain scores; ACT was our largest sample from a prospective cohort study of people with late-onset Alzheimer's disease.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We z-transformed scores from other studies to ACT-defined metrics for each domain
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We assigned people to subgroups as we have done previously.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Briefly, for each person we determined their average score across memory, executive functioning, language, and visuospatial functioning.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We determined differences between each domain score and this average score.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We identified domains with substantial relative impairments as those with relative impairments at least as large as 0.80 standard deviation units as explained in Supplemental Text 3.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We categorized people by the number of domains with substantial relative impairments (0, 1, or >=2) and further categorized those with substantial relative impairments in a single domain by the domain with a substantial relative impairment.
0	memory impairment	NA	NA	METHODS	This approach results in six potential subgroups: those with no domain with a substantial relative impairment; those with an isolated substantial relative impairment in one of four domains (e.g., isolated substantial relative memory impairment, isolated substantial relative language impairment, etc.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	), and those with multiple domains with substantial relative impairments
0	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	NA	METHODS	As in our previous study, we compared the proportion of people with late-onset Alzheimer's disease in each subgroup with at least one APOE epsilon4 allele.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For other genetic analyses we combined data from ROS and MAP, as has been done many times previously, and evaluated data separately in four genetic datasets.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Each dataset was imputed using IMPUTE2 and samples of European ancestry from the 2012 build of the 1000 Genomes project.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We excluded SNPs with R2 or information scores < 0.5, and SNPs with a minor allele frequency <3%.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Further details are provided in Supplemental Text 6 and in Lambert et al
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used KING-Robust to obtain study-specific principal components to account for population stratification.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used logistic regression in PLINK v 1.9 to evaluate associations at each SNP for each cognitively-defined subgroup.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Cognitively normal elderly controls from each study were the comparison group for all of these analyses.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We included covariates for age, sex, and principal components.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used METAL for meta-analysis
0	NA	sortilin-related receptor L(DLR class A) repeats-containing	rs11218343	METHODS	IGAP's most extreme odds ratio (OR) outside of chromosome 19 was for rs11218343 associated with SORL1, which had an OR of 0.77 reported in the Stage 1 and 2 meta-analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We focused attention on SNPs where meta-analysis ORs for any cognitively-defined subgroup were <0.77 (or, equivalently, ORs >[1/0.77], which is >1.30).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	As presented in the Box, more extreme ORs in a single subgroup, with strong replication across genetic datasets, would represent strong support of biologically coherent categorization
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	For genetic loci previously identified as associated with risk of late-onset Alzheimer's disease, we used the methods described in applied to IGAP's previously reported ORs and confidence intervals to determine significance of subgroup associations compared to IGAP
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	We used genetic data from all cognitively normal elderly controls and all people with Alzheimer's disease to generate Alzheimer's disease and subgroup genetic risk scores.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	We used 1) IGAP SNPs and effect sizes to generate Alzheimer's disease risk scores, and 2) our results to generate risk scores for each of the five subgroups
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	To evaluate these risk scores, we used logistic regression with Alzheimer's disease case vs. control status as the outcome, and included terms for age and sex.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We compared a model with just the addition of the IGAP genetic risk score to a model that incorporated that score plus the five subgroup risk scores.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Finally, we compared area under the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves for the model with the IGAP risk score to a model that did not include that term but included terms for the five subgroup risk scores.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Further details are shown in Supplemental Text 12
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Co-calibrated scores for each domain are available from the parent studies.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	GWAS meta-analysis summary statistics for each subgroup will be available on the National Institute on Aging Genetics of Alzheimer's Disease Storage Site (NIAGADS; https://www.niagads.org/datasets/ng00073).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Other study materials are available here: https://digital.lib.washington.edu/researchworks/handle/1773/40364
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The funders of the study had no role in study design, data collection, data analysis, data interpretation, or writing of the report.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	All authors had full access to all the data in the study.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The corresponding author had final responsibility for the decision to submit the publication
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	In all, there were 4 050 people with sufficient cognitive data to be classified into a subgroup.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Demographic characteristics and average cognitive domain scores by study are shown in Table 1.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Participants in the prospective cohort studies (ACT, MAP, and ROS) were older on average than those from ADNI and PITT.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Most participants in each study self-reported white race (90% in ACT to 96% in MAP).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	There was some variation in cognitive performance across studies.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The most notable differences from ACT (our reference for scaling) were for executive functioning in ADNI and ROS (average 0.8 units higher), and for language in MAP (average 0.8 units lower)
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Proportions of people in each subgroup are shown in Figure 1.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	There was considerable heterogeneity in proportions across studies (chi2df=20 = 468.7, p=1.0x10-86)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Demographic characteristics of people in each subgroup were similar to those for people with Alzheimer's disease overall (Supplemental Table 29).
0	optic apraxia	NA	NA	RESULTS	The proportion who were female ranged from 51% for isolated substantial relative executive functioning impairment to 63% of those with isolated substantial relative visuospatial impairment.
0	memory impairment	NA	NA	RESULTS	Mean age at diagnosis ranged from 79 for those with isolated substantial relative visuospatial or memory impairment to 82 for those with isolated substantial relative language impairment.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Mean years of education did not vary substantially across subgroups
0	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	There were 3 701 people with APOE genotype data (Table 2).
0	memory impairment	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	We published APOE results from ACT; the proportion of those with isolated substantial memory impairment with >=1 APOE epsilon4 allele was 12% higher than overall in that study.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	This finding was consistent across all five studies.
0	memory impairment	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	Overall, the proportion of people with >=1 APOE epsilon4 allele was 15% higher in those with isolated substantial memory impairment (65%) compared with the entire sample (50%).
0	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	The differences in proportions with >=1 APOE epsilon4 allele were highly significant (p=1.5x10-27).
0	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	The APOE result was not sensitive to choosing other thresholds to indicate a substantial relative impairment (Supplemental Text 4 and Supplemental Figure 2)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	There were 2 431 people with late-onset Alzheimer's disease and 3447 cognitively normal elderly controls with genome-wide SNP data.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Top results are shown in Figure 2.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	There were 33 loci outside Chromosome 19 where the p value for one subgroup was <5x10-5.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	All of these had ORs <0.77 or >1.30 compared to cognitively normal elderly controls.
0	optic apraxia	NIT-2	rs2289506	RESULTS	These included nine loci for those with isolated substantial visuospatial impairment (red dots, including rs2289506 near NIT2 on chromosome 3, rs9369477 near SPATS1 on chromosome 4, rs2046197 near CSMD1 on chromosome 8, and rs8091629 near SLC14A2 on chromosome 18), nine for those with multiple domains with substantial relative impairments (yellow dots, including rs698842 near NRXN1 on chromosome 2, rs78872508 near HDAC9 on chromosome 7, and rs4348488 near BMP1 on chromosome 8), seven for those with no domain with a substantial relative impairment (purple dots, including rs11708767 near MED12L on chromosome 3, rs72839770 near DVL2 on chromosome 17, and rs7264688 near MGME1 on chromosome 20), six for those with isolated substantial language impairment (green dots, including rs13374908 near FAM163A on chromosome 1, rs28715896 near ERBB4 on chromosome 2, and rs75337321 near CACNA2D3 on chromosome 3), and two for those with isolated substantial memory impairment (blue dots, including rs1977412 near AGT on chromosome 1), and one for those with no domains with substantial impairments (rs7264688 near MGME1 on chromosome 20).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Other loci shown in Figure 2 not named in the preceding sentence were >50kb from genes.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Replication results are in Supplemental Table 2a and 2b.
0	NA	ERBB4	rs28715896	RESULTS	All ORs were in the same direction for all these SNPs except rs28715896 on chromosome 2 near ERBB4, rs61835453 on chromosome 10, and rs365521 on chromosome 17.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Heterogeneity p values did not suggest heterogeneity for any of these SNPs.
0	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	No SNP outside the APOE region reached p<5x10-8, the traditional level of genome-wide significance (Figure 2)
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Results for selected IGAP loci are shown in Supplemental Table 30.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	We selected subgroups with meta-analytic ORs <0.77 or >1.30 and for which results from all four data sets were in the same direction.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Results for other IGAP SNPs for all studies and all subgroups are in Supplemental Table 31
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Across all datasets, there were 5 878 people with SNP data who were either normal controls or Alzheimer's disease cases.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The logistic regression model for case vs. control status with age, sex, and IGAP gene scores had a likelihood of 176.13 and a pseudo-R2 of 0.022.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	A model that included all of those terms and also included five subgroup gene scores had a likelihood of 311.94 and a pseudo-R2 of 0.039.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	These were nested models; we compared them with a likelihood ratio test with 5 degrees of freedom.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The difference in likelihoods was highly significant (p=1.39x10-27)
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The area under the ROC curve for the model with age, sex, and the IGAP genetic risk score was 0.60 (95% CI 0.58, 0.61), while for the model with age, sex, and five subgroup genetic risk scores, the area under the ROC curve was 0.62 (95% CI 0.61, 0.64).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	This difference was statistically significant (chi2df=1 = 11.15, p=0.0008).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Further analyses are described in Supplemental Text 12
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We used modern psychometric methods to co-calibrate cognitive data to generate domain scores across five different studies of older adults with research-quality clinical Alzheimer's disease diagnoses.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We obtained scores on the same metric, so scores from different studies were directly comparable to each other.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The proportion of people with Alzheimer's disease in each study categorized in each subgroup varied across studies (Figure 1).
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We used genetic data to determine whether our categorization scheme resulted in biologically coherent subgroups.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Top genetic associations from each subgroup were consistent across studies, suggesting our findings were not due to idiosyncrasies of any particular study.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Gene scores for subgroups performed better in predicting case vs. control status than gene scores derived from Alzheimer's disease case-control analyses
0	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	DISCUSS	APOE genotype was significantly different across subgroups.
0	memory impairment	apolipoprotein E	NA	DISCUSS	We previously showed in ACT that more people with isolated substantial relative memory impairment had at least one APOE epsilon4 allele than people in other subgroups.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We robustly replicated that finding here (Table 2).
0	memory impairment	apolipoprotein E	NA	DISCUSS	Associations between APOE epsilon4 alleles and memory impairment among people with Alzheimer's disease have been previously noted
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Outside of chromosome 19 which was dominated by APOE-related signals for all subgroups, we identified 33 loci with p<10-5 for at least one subgroup.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	All of these had ORs <0.77 or >1.30 (Figure 2).
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	There were consistent findings across datasets for nearly all these loci (Supplemental Text 7-11)
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Gene scores from IGAP SNPs explained a modest amount of risk for case-control status.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Adding gene scores from our cognitively defined subgroups improved prediction of Alzheimer's disease.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Furthermore, in a head-to-head comparison, gene scores for cognitively defined subgroups did a better job predicting Alzheimer's disease status than did gene scores from IGAP SNPs
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	These data provide strong support for the biological coherence of subgroups produced by our categorization scheme.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Each subgroup we analyzed has extreme ORs at novel SNPs that were consistent across multiple independent samples.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Even with the relatively small sample sizes from these studies, the large effect sizes at common SNPs produced p values that are close to genome-wide significance
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Others have used different data sources to categorize people with Alzheimer's disease.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Sweet and colleagues compared people with Alzheimer's disease who developed psychosis to those who did not.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	They identified a few interesting loci, but effect sizes were much smaller than those reported here (Supplemental Text 13)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We were part of a consortium evaluating rates of decline among people with Alzheimer's disease.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The evidence in support of rates of decline, as an organizing characteristic among people with Alzheimer's disease, is not nearly as strong as that shown here for cognitively-defined subgroups
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Others have used cluster analysis approaches applied to neuropsychological or imaging data to categorize people with Alzheimer's disease.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	There are very important distinctions between those approaches and the approach adopted here.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	In cluster analysis, the computer maximizes some distance across groups in a way that may not make clinical or biological sense.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Disease severity is an important consideration; see for a nice discussion
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our approach began with theory and focused exclusively on cognitive data.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	An early paper considered differences between memory and executive functioning among people with Alzheimer's disease.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Differences between these scores enables memory to serve as something of a proxy for disease severity.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	This framework is useful for considering dysexecutive Alzheimer's disease
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We have extended that framework to incorporate additional cognitive domains.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The field has increasingly emphasized the importance of Alzheimer's disease variants including primary progressive aphasia (PPA) and posterior cortical atrophy (PCA); these rare subtypes are described as typically having early onset.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Clinical descriptions of the cognitive patterns of these variants emphasize relative deficits between language (PPA) or visuospatial functioning (PCA) and other domains.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We thus incorporate average performance across domains, and differences from that average, to more fully capture the range of clinical heterogeneity described in late onset Alzheimer's disease
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our investigation of cognitively-defined late-onset Alzheimer's disease was motivated by considerations of previously described Alzheimer's disease variants, including logopenic PPA and PCA.
0	dyslexia	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Overlap between logopenic PPA and a history of dyslexia has led to the question of whether altered patterns of language network connectivity associated with dyslexia may predispose to selective regional vulnerability to Alzheimer's pathological processes.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The work described here focuses exclusively on people with typical late-onset Alzheimer's disease and demonstrates substantial numbers of people with patterns of relative cognitive impairment that are similar to those described in rare Alzheimer's subtypes such as logopenic PPA and PCA.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	These findings suggest the need to further evaluate relationships between cognitively defined late onset Alzheimer's disease subgroups and these rare Alzheimer's subtypes.
0	dyslexia	NA	NA	DISCUSS	For example, it is unknown whether rates of dyslexia are higher among people with isolated substantial relative language impairment than people with other subtypes of late-onset Alzheimer's disease.
0	autism and language disorders	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Furthermore, it will be fascinating to see whether people with logopenic variant PPA may have genetic patterns similar to those of people with isolated substantial relative language impairment, and whether people with PCA may have genetic patterns similar to those of people with isolated substantial visuospatial impairment.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	It will be of great interest in the coming years to elucidate relationships across these conditions.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Such investigations may reveal important insights into shared and distinct mechanisms underlying susceptibility to these conditions
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our results should be considered mindful of limitations of our study.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Data evaluated here are from studies with well-educated people of European ancestry.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	It will be important to replicate this approach among people with diverse genetic backgrounds.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	While we combined data from five large studies, the resulting subgroups were underpowered to reach genome-wide significance, and one subgroup (isolated substantial relative executive functioning impairment) was too small to analyze at all.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	It will be important to incorporate additional data sets to see whether novel suggestive loci reach genome-wide significance, and to identify additional loci.
0	SD	NA	NA	DISCUSS	"We used a large threshold of 0.80 SD to characterize ""substantial"" relative impairments, which may be too conservative."
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our categorization approach relies exclusively on cognitive data.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We could imagine a more optimal approach that also incorporates imaging and/or fluid biomarkers
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	In conclusion, genome-wide genetic data enabled us to determine that a cognitively-defined categorization scheme produced biologically coherent subgroups of people with Alzheimer's disease.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	This is an important result on the road towards personalized medicine
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Proportions of people in each study and overall in each cognitively-defined subgroup
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	1.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	CAF = coded allele frequency.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	SNPs further than 50 kB from a gene do not have a gene name reported here.
0	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	NA	FIG	Gray shading in the odds ratios column of the figure delineates ORs>0.77 and <1.30, which is the range of ORs outside APOE from the International Genomics of Alzheimer's Project (IGAP
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	TABLE	Demographic and cognitive characteristics of people with late-onset Alzheimer's disease by study and overal
0	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	TABLE	Proportion of those in each cognitively defined subgroup with >=1 APOE epsilon4 allele, by study and overal
0	NA	NA	NA	REF	The large group at the top represents a heterogeneous group of individuals.
0	NA	NA	NA	REF	A strategy is applied to categorize individuals into subgroups.
0	NA	NA	NA	REF	For a precision medicine approach to work, the categorization should reduce heterogeneity.
0	NA	NA	NA	REF	In the lower left figure, the method did not reduce heterogeneity and thus, we refer to this as an incoherent subgrouping strategy.
0	NA	NA	NA	REF	In contrast, the lower right figure was produced by a different method which resulted in relatively homogenous subgroups; this method would represent a coherent subgrouping strategy
0	NA	NA	NA	REF	For incoherent subgroup comparisons with controls, top genetic hits and effect sizes would not be expected to be different than those observed in the entire group.
0	NA	NA	NA	REF	Further, for a given incoherent subgroup, spurious genetic associations at a locus would not be expected to replicate in that subgroup in other datasets.
0	NA	NA	NA	REF	In contrast, for coherent subgroup comparisons with controls, there is improved potential for identification of novel loci and effect sizes could be stronger than those seen for the original ungrouped data.
0	NA	NA	NA	REF	Further replication of subgroup associations in other datasets would occur more often than expected by chance
0	NA	NA	NA	REF	Genetic data may serve a useful role in determining whether a categorization strategy produces biologically coherent subgroups
