0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Protein-coding genetic variants that strongly affect disease risk can yield relevant clues to disease pathogenesis.
0	Type 2 diabetes	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Here we report exome-sequencing analyses of 20,791 individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and 24,440 non-diabetic control participants from 5 ancestries.
0	NA	SLC30A8	NA	ABSTRACT	We identify gene-level associations of rare variants (with minor allele frequencies of less than 0.5%) in 4 genes at exome-wide significance, including a series of more than 30 SLC30A8 alleles that conveys protection against T2D, and in 12 gene sets, including those corresponding to T2D drug targets (P = 6.1 x 10-3) and candidate genes from knockout mice (P = 5.2 x 10-3).
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Within our study, the strongest T2D gene-level signals for rare variants explain at most 25% of the heritability of the strongest common single-variant signals, and the gene-level effect sizes of the rare variants that we observed in established T2D drug targets will require 75,000-185,000 sequenced cases to achieve exome-wide significance.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We propose a method to interpret these modest rare-variant associations and to incorporate these associations into future target or gene prioritization efforts
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Human genetics offers a powerful approach for better understanding and treating disease by identifying molecular alterations that are causally associated with physiological traits.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Common-variant array-based genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have associated thousands of genomic loci with hundreds of human traits, and further analyses indicate that heritability of most complex traits is attributable to modest-effect common regulatory variants.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	However, non-coding GWAS associations are challenging to assign to causal variants or genes
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Protein-coding variants with strong effects on protein function or disease can offer molecular 'probes' into the pathological relevance of a gene and potentially establish a direct causal link between gene gain- or loss-of-function and disease risk:especially when there is evidence of multiple independent variant associations (an 'allelic series') within a gene.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Several lines of evidence predict that strong-effect variants (allelic odds ratios > 2) will usually be rare (minor allele frequency (MAF) < 0.5%) and, in many cases, difficult to accurately study through current array-based GWAS and imputation strategies.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Whole-genome or whole-exome sequencing, by contrast, allows interrogation of the full spectrum of genetic variation
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Previous exome-sequencing studies have identified relatively few exome-wide significant rare-variant associations for complex diseases such as T2D.
0	000,000 SNPs	NA	NA	INTRO	This paucity of findings is in part due to the limited sample sizes of previous studies, the largest of which included less than 10,000 disease cases and fall short of the sample sizes that analytic9 and simulation-based calculations predict are needed to identify rare disease-associated variants under plausible disease models.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	To increase rare coding variant analysis power, we collected and analysed exome-sequencing data from 20,791 T2D cases and 24,440 controls: one of the largest analyses of exome-sequenced cases for T2D, specifically, and for any disease, more generally
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Study participants (Supplementary Table 1) were drawn from five self-reported ancestries: (Hispanic/Latino (effective size (neff) = 14,442; 33.8%), European (neff = 10,517; 24.6%), African-American (neff = 5,959; 13.9%), East-Asian (neff = 6,010; 14.1%) and South-Asian (neff = 5,833; 13.6%)) and yielded equivalent statistical power to detect associations as a balanced study of around 42,800 individuals or a population-based study (assuming T2D prevalence of 8% and no ascertainment bias) of around 152,000 individuals.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Power was improved compared to the previous largest T2D exome-sequencing study of 6,504 cases and 6,436 controls, increasing, for example, from 5% to 90% for a variant with MAF = 0.2% and odds ratio = 2.5 (Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	1)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Exome sequencing to 40x mean depth, variant calling and quality control (Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	2, Supplementary Methods, Supplementary Figs.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	1-3 and Supplementary Table 2) produced a dataset with 6.33 million variants: 2.3% common (MAF > 5%), 4.2% low-frequency (0.5% < MAF < 5%) and 93.5% rare (MAF < 0.5%) (Supplementary Table 3).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These include 2.26 million nonsynonymous variants and 871,000 insertions and deletions (indels), more than twice the number of variants that were analysed in a previous T2D exome-sequencing study
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We first tested each variant, regardless of allele frequency, for T2D association ('single-variant' test; Methods and Extended Data Figs.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	3, 4).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Fifteen variants (in seven loci) exceeded exome-wide significance (P < 4.3 x 10-7 for coding variants, P < 5 x 10-8 for synonymous or non-coding variants), including ten nonsynonymous variants (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	1a and Extended Data Table 1).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These 15 associations are a substantial increase over the single association that was reported in a previous T2D-exome sequencing study and illustrate again the value of multi-ancestry association analyses:as only 9 out of 15 variants achieved P < 0.05 in European samples.
0	NA	SFI1	rs145181683	METHODS	However, only two variants were not previously reported by GWAS: a variant in SFI1 (rs145181683, Arg724Trp; Supplementary Fig.
0	obese	MC4R	rs79783591	METHODS	4) that failed to replicate in an independent cohort (n = 4,522, P = 0.90; Methods) and a low-frequency (in Hispanic/Latino individuals; MAF = 0.89%) moderate-effect (odds ratio = 2.17, 95% confidence interval = 1.63-2.89) MC4R variant (rs79783591, Ile269Asn) that has previously been shown to decrease MC4R activity and to be associated with obesity and T2D in smaller studies.
0	NA	MC4R	rs79783591	METHODS	Conditioning on body-mass index reduced but did not eliminate the MC4R Ile269Asn T2D association (P = 1.0 x 10-5)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Because single-variant analyses have limited power to detect rare-variant associations, we next performed association tests for aggregations of variants within genes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Because numerous variant aggregation approaches (that is, 'masks') and gene-level tests are available, we developed a method (Methods, Extended Data Figs.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	5, 6 and Supplementary Figs.
0	haploinsufficiency	NA	NA	METHODS	5, 6) to consolidate information across 14 analyses into four results per gene: burden and SKAT analyses, each of which were either summarized as the 'minimum P value' across masks or 'weighted' to estimate the effect of gene haploinsufficiency.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used an exome-wide gene-level significance threshold of P = 6.57 x 10-7 (Methods)
0	NA	MC4R	NA	METHODS	Using this strategy, gene-level associations were exome-wide significant for MC4R, SLC30A8 and PAM (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	1b, Extended Data Table 2 and Supplementary Table 4), with variants from multiple ancestries contributing to each signal (Methods).
0	NA	SLC30A8	rs13266634	METHODS	All three genes lie within reported T2D GWAS loci and contain previously identified coding variant signals: the common variant Arg325Trp and 12 rare protective protein-truncating variants (PTVs) for SLC30A8, the low-frequency variants Asp563Gly and Ser539Trp for PAM and the low-frequency variant Ile269Asn for MC4R
0	NA	MC4R	rs79783591	METHODS	The associations in MC4R (combined MAF = 0.79%, minimum P = 2.7 x 10-10, odds ratio = 2.07, 95% confidence interval = 1.65-2.59) and PAM (combined MAF = 4.9%, weighted P = 2.2 x 10-9, odds ratio = 1.44, 95% confidence interval = 1.28-1.62) result largely from effects of the previously identified coding variants in these genes, although the MC4R signal remained nominally significant after removing Ile269Asn (P = 8.6 x 10-3; Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	PAM	NA	METHODS	7) and the PAM signal remained nominally significant (P < 0.05) after removing the 35 strongest individually associated PAM variants (Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	8).
0	NA	PAM	p.Asp563Gly	METHODS	As illustrated by a recent study that identified a novel T2D risk mechanism through cellular characterization of PAM Asp563Gly and Ser539Trp, variants identified in our study (uniquely from sequencing) could yield further insights into the T2D risk mechanism mediated by PAM
0	NA	MC4R	rs13266634	METHODS	In contrast to MC4R and PAM, the SLC30A8 signal (103 variants, combined MAF = 1.4%, weighted P = 1.3 x 10-8, odds ratio = 0.40, 95% confidence interval = 0.28-0.55) was not primarily driven by an individual variant (Arg325Trp (MAF > 1%) was not included in the gene-level analysis).
0	NA	SLC30A8	NA	METHODS	The association was instead driven by 90 missense variants (weighted P = 3.9 x 10-7) and remained nominally significant (P < 0.05) even when we removed the 32 strongest individually associated SLC30A8 variants (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	1c and Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	9).
0	NA	SLC30A8	rs13266634	METHODS	Although SLC30A8 was first implicated in T2D over a decade ago, the disease-associated molecular mechanism(s) through which SLC30A8 acts remain poorly understood:in part because the common risk-increasing allele Arg325Trp and the rare risk-decreasing PTVs were both initially thought to decrease protein activity.
0	haploinsufficiency	SLC30A8	NA	METHODS	The protective allelic series from our analysis argues that decreased T2D risk is the typical effect of SLC30A8 missense variation:that is, it is not unique to haploinsufficiency:and provides many additional alleles that can be characterized to gain mechanistic insights
0	NA	MC4R	NA	METHODS	To evaluate association evidence for genes other than MC4R, PAM and SLC30A8, we assessed the 50 most-significant gene-level associations from our study in two independent exome-sequencing datasets: 12,467 European or African-American individuals (3,062 T2D cases) from the CHARGE discovery sequencing project (Supplementary Table 5; 50 genes available) and 49,199 European individuals (12,973 T2D cases) from the Geisinger Health System (Supplementary Table 6; 44 genes available).
0	NA	MC4R	NA	METHODS	In a meta-analysis of the three studies (Methods and Supplementary Table 7), MC4R (P = 6.9 x 10-14), PAM (P = 3.0 x 10-9) and SLC30A8 (P = 3.3 x 10-8) each became more significant.
0	NA	UBE2NL	NA	METHODS	In addition, one gene, UBE2NL (P = 5.6 x 10-7):which has few prior links to T2D or other complex traits:newly achieved exome-wide significance (http://www.type2diabetesgenetics.org/).
0	NA	UBE2NL	NA	METHODS	All aspects of this association passed quality control (Methods and Supplementary Table 8), although further replication will be important to establish UBE2NL as a novel T2D-relevant gene
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	More broadly, we observed an excess of directionally consistent associations (both odds ratio > 1 or both odds ratio < 1) between the original and replication analyses (31 out of 46 in CHARGE, one-sided binomial P = 0.013; 23 out of 40 in the Geisinger Health System, P = 0.21; overall P = 0.011; Supplementary Table 7), suggesting that several more of our top gene-level signals will reach exome-wide significance in future studies
0	weight gain	NA	NA	METHODS	Even if a gene-level association does not achieve exome-wide significance, it might still be of use to prioritize a gene as relevant to T2D or predict whether loss or gain of protein function increases disease risk.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To investigate potential insights that could be obtained by sub-exome-wide significant gene-level associations, we analysed 16 gene sets that were connected to T2D based on a variety of sources of evidence (for example, genes that contained diabetes-associated Mendelian variants, T2D drug targets or genes that have been implicated in diabetes-related phenotypes in mouse models; Methods and Supplementary Table 9)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	First, for each gene set, we investigated whether the genes within the set had more significant gene-level associations than expected by chance (Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In total, 12 out of 16 gene sets achieved P < 0.05 set-level associations (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	2a-e and Supplementary Fig.
0	Type 2 diabetes	NA	NA	METHODS	10), including T2D drug targets (P = 2.1 x 10-3), genes previously reported in mouse models of non-insulin-dependent diabetes (NIDD; P = 5.2 x 10-3) or impaired glucose tolerance (P = 7.2 x 10-6) and genes that contained common likely causal coding-variant T2D associations6 (P = 8.8 x 10-3 after conditioning on the common variants nearby these genes).
0	diabetes	NA	NA	METHODS	Additionally, as previously described, we observed a significant set-level association (P = 1.2 x 10-3) for genes implicated in maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY; Fig.
0	NA	PDX-1	NA	METHODS	2a, Supplementary Table 10), with nominal associations in four genes including PDX1 (weighted P = 1.7 x 10-4, odds ratio = 3.45, 95% confidence interval = 1.78-6.71, 65 variants).
0	insulin deficiency	insulin	NA	METHODS	Rare variants in genes associated with MODY also demonstrated aggregate association with lower body-mass index (minimum P = 5.7 x 10-3) and lower fasting insulin (minimum P = 0.028), consistent with the known predominant variant risk mechanism of reduced insulin secretion in MODY.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Most gene set signals were driven by multiple genes in the set (Supplementary Table 11) and:compared with previous studies focused on PTVs:consisted of substantial contributions from missense variants.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Indeed, set-level P values from PTVs alone were >0.05 for almost all gene sets (Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	11)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Collectively, these results suggest that association strength at the gene level can be used as a potential metric to prioritize candidate genes relevant to T2D.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For example, the set of 40 genes within T2D GWAS loci with gene-level P < 0.05 had a significant excess of protein-protein interactions among them (Methods and Supplementary Table 12), suggesting that this set may be enriched for 'effector genes' that mediate T2D GWAS associations.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Fully evaluating the relevance to T2D of these and other candidate genes will require further experimental work
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In addition to prioritizing genes that are potentially relevant to T2D, we assessed whether gene-level analysis could help to predict whether gene inactivation increases or decreases T2D risk, as this is of high interest for the development of therapeutics.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We compared the odds ratios that were estimated from a gene-level weighted burden analysis to directional relationships that have been previously reported (Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Seven out of eight T2D drug targets showed concordance between genetic and therapeutic directions of effect (three out of four inhibitor targets had an odds ratio < 1, four out of four agonist targets had an odds ratio > 1; one-sided binomial P = 0.035; Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	2f).
0	NA	KCNJ11	His172Arg	METHODS	The only exception was KCNJ11 (odds ratio = 1.59, inhibited by sulfonylureas), for which the gene-level signal was driven by a known activating missense mutation (His172Arg); an analysis without this variant predicted the correct (odds ratio < 1) directional relationship.
0	diabetes	KCNJ11	NA	METHODS	This finding is consistent with the known reciprocal roles of KCNJ11 in both diabetes and persistent hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia of infancy
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Concordances between gene-level estimates of odds ratios and knockout effects in mice were more equivocal (for example, 7 out of11 diabetes-associated genes had an odds ratio > 1, binomial P = 0.27; 137 out of 240 genes associated with increased circulating glucose had an odds ratio > 1, P = 0.016; Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	12).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The lower concordances for these gene sets, despite a trend towards lower-than-expected gene-level P values within them (Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	10), highlight the known limitations of animal models, which can be highly dependent on model conditions, to predict human physiology.
0	glucose homeostasis	Ataxia telangiectasia mutated	NA	METHODS	Candidate genes with significant but directionally unexpected gene-level associations may provide valuable insights into seemingly promising preclinical results: for example, the protective gene-level signal for ATM in our analysis (burden test of PTVs odds ratio = 0.50, P = 0.003) contradicts previous expectations:based on insulin resistance and impaired glucose tolerance in Atm knockout mice:that ATM loss-of-function should increase T2D risk.
0	haploinsufficiency	ATM	NA	METHODS	Evidence is even less favourable that ATM haploinsufficiency strongly increases T2D risk, rejecting an odds ratio > 2 at P = 1.3 x 10-8.
0	cardiovascular disease	ATM	NA	METHODS	These observations could be relevant in the ongoing study of whether ATM has a role in metformin response or whether ATM activators are considered able to treat cardiovascular disease
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Despite early arguments that rare-variant studies would considerably advance our understanding of complex diseases, most genetic discoveries continue to be provided by studies of common variants, which can be studied in much larger sample sizes through array-based genotyping and imputation.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Previous quantitative analyses have similarly emphasized the main contribution of common variants to T2D heritability, but they have lacked the sequencing data that are needed to fully evaluate the value added by rare variants (that is, direct sequencing in addition to array-based genotyping and imputation) to discover disease-associated loci, explain disease heritability and elucidate allelic series
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To compare discoveries that were possible from sequencing and array-based studies, we collected genome-wide array data within the same individuals that we sequenced (available for 34,529 (76.3%) individuals; 18,233 cases), imputed variants using best-practice reference panels and conducted a single-variant association analysis ('imputed GWAS'; Methods and Supplementary Table 13).
0	NA	PAX4	p.Arg190His	METHODS	Out of 10 exome-wide significant nonsynonymous single-variant associations from the sequence analysis, 8 were detected in the imputed GWAS analysis (PAX4 Arg192His and MC4R Ile269Asn were not imputable), together with genome-wide significant non-coding variant associations in 14 additional loci (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	3a and Supplementary Table 14).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	All 10 variants with significant single-variant sequence associations were also present on the Illumina Exome Array.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These results demonstrate the limited power of sequencing to detect single-variant associations beyond array-based genotyping and imputation, even before considering the much larger sample sizes enabled by the substantially lower cost of array-based genotyping
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We next compared the contributions to T2D heritability of the strongest (common) single-variant associations from the imputed GWAS to those of the strongest (mostly rare-variant) gene-level associations from the sequencing analysis (Methods).
0	NA	MC4R	NA	METHODS	The three exome-wide significant gene-level signals explain an estimated 0.11% (MC4R), 0.092% (PAM) and 0.072% (SLC30A8) of T2D genetic variance, only 10-20% of the variance explained by the three strongest independent common-variant associations in the imputed GWAS (TCF7L2, 0.89%; KCNQ1, 0.81%; CDC123, 0.35%; Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	3b).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	More broadly, fitting a previous exponential model of heritability to our data (Methods) estimated that the top 100 gene-level signals associated with T2D explained only 1.96% of genetic variance within our study.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These results argue against a large contribution to T2D heritability from even the strongest gene-level signals, even after accounting for potential sources of downward bias in our calculations (see Methods)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We finally assessed whether an array-based GWAS could have detected the many potential allelic series that we observed from direct sequencing.
0	NA	SLC30A8	NA	METHODS	Among the variants that contributed to the exome-wide significant gene-level associations in SLC30A8, MC4R and PAM, we estimate that 95.3% of variants are not imputable (r2 > 0.4; Methods) in the 1000 Genomes multi-ancestry reference panel, 74.6% of those in Europeans are not imputable in the larger European-focused Haplotype Reference Consortium panel and 90.2% (79.7% of European variants) are absent from the Illumina Exome Array.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Additionally, gene set associations (using gene 'scores'; see Methods) from the imputed GWAS showed suggestive associations (four gene sets achieved P < 0.05, nine achieved P < 0.1; Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	13) but were weaker than gene set associations from the sequencing analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Some of these gene set associations are detectable in larger array-based studies: analysis of a 110,000-sample multi-ancestry GWAS produced P < 0.05 for 12 out of 16 gene sets that we studied (Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	14); however, the genes (and corresponding variants) that are responsible for the array-based gene set associations were mostly different from those responsible for the sequence-based associations, as the two Methods often produced uncorrelated rank orderings of genes within gene sets (for example, r = -0.11, P = 0.57 for the mouse NIDD gene set; Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	3c)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Collectively, these results demonstrate the complementarity of array-based GWAS and exome sequencing, with the former favouring locus discovery and the latter enabling full enumeration of potentially informative alleles
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The T2D drug targets analysed here illustrate the opportunities and challenges of using current exome-sequencing datasets in translational research.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Rare-variant gene-level associations are significant across these targets as a set (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	2b) and predict the correct T2D directional relationship for all but one gene (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	2f).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	However, to detect:at exome-wide significance:the effect sizes estimated from our study with 80% power would require 75,000-185,000 sequenced cases (150,000-370,000 exomes in a balanced study, or 600,000-1,275,000 exomes from a population with a prevalence of T2D of 8%; Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	4a and Methods)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	As a consequence, many of the modest associations (for example, P = 0.05) in current samples may point to clinically or therapeutically relevant variants or genes (Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	15).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The false-positive rate for these associations is expected to be greater than the false-positive rate for exome-wide significant associations and be further influenced by imperfect calibration of association test statistics.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	If this false-positive rate can be quantified using independent 'truth' data, however, then a modest association signal could help to justify further experimentation on a gene based on the likelihood that it is a true association, the cost of the experiment and the benefit of success (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	4b)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We developed and evaluated a method to quantify the false-positive association rate for nonsynonymous variants in our dataset by using independent data, modelling assumptions and prior data to map single-variant P values to estimated posterior probabilities of true, causal associations (PPAs) (Methods and Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	7).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Model parameters in the middle of the range that we explored (Methods and Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	8) predict that 1.5% (95% confidence interval = 0.74-2.2%) of nonsynonymous variants that achieve P < 0.05 in our study are truly, causally associated with T2D, increasing to 3.6% (95% confidence interval = 1.4-5.9%) for P < 0.005 and 9.7% (95% confidence interval = 3.9-15.0%) for P < 5 x 10-4 (Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	16).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In this model, 541 (95% confidence interval = 270-810) of the 36,604 nonsynonymous variants with P < 0.05 in our study represent true, causal associations
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We next applied this method to variants within a curated set of 94 T2D GWAS loci (Methods), which might be expected to show further enrichment of true associations.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Our model predicted that non-synonymous variants within these loci had even higher PPAs: 2.0% (95% confidence interval = 0.048-4.0%) of such variants overall, 8.1% (3.6-12.4%) with P < 0.05 in our study and 17.2% (7.7-24.1%) with P < 0.005 were estimated to represent true, causal T2D associations.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Of particular note are variants in these loci that not only achieve nominal significance (P < 0.05) in our analysis but also have moderate-to-large estimated effects on T2D risk (Supplementary Tables 15, 16), as we predict that a substantial number of these variants (for example, 76 (95% confidence interval = 29-117) out of 746 with estimated odds ratio > 2 and 50 (95% confidence interval = 19-77) out of 503 with estimated odds ratio > 3) show true, causal associations
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Outside of GWAS loci, many genes are suspected to be involved in T2D because of prior evidence from non-genetic sources (for example, animal studies or because of implication in related disorders).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To evaluate variants in such genes, we extended our PPA estimation approach to incorporate gene prior probabilities (or 'priors') (Methods and Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	7d) and applied it to two sets of genes
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	First, using a prior of 100% for genes associated with MODY:thus assuming that all genes implicated in MODY are relevant to T2D: our model predicts 24 variants (combined MAF = 1.1%) to have PPA >= 40% (Supplementary Table 17).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Nine have estimated odds ratio > 3 in our study; as none of these were previously reported to be pathogenic MODY variants, they are therefore novel rare-variant candidates for use in the prediction of T2D risk.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	On the other hand, these results show that, once false-positive rates are empirically estimated rather than assumed, nominally significant variants (P = 0.05) in genes associated with MODY are still, in absolute terms, more likely to be false-positive rather than true associations
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Second, as an example of a gene prior that was derived objectively (rather than subjectively), we used a mixture model approach to estimate the proportion of non-null associations across the mouse NIDD gene set (Methods), leading to a prior of approximately 23% for genes of which knockout causes NIDD in mice.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Our model with this prior (Supplementary Table 18) predicts nonsynonymous variants that achieved P < 0.05 to have PPAs of 9.9% (PPAs of 24.6% for P < 0.005).
0	NA	MADD	NA	METHODS	In particular, we predict several nonsynonymous variants in MADD and NOS3 to have PPA >= 14% (Supplementary Table 19), suggesting links between variation in these genes and T2D based on combined evidence from human genetic studies and mouse models
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Although these PPA calculations have limitations (Methods), they present a framework to use suggestive genetic signals to support cost-benefit estimates of 'go/no-go' decisions in the language of decision theory (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	4b).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To enable this strategy, we have made our exome-sequencing association results Publically available through the AMP T2D Knowledge Portal (http://www.type2diabetesgenetics.org/), which supports queries of precomputed associations and further enables dynamic recomputations of associations with custom covariates and sample- and/or variant-filtering criteria
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our results provide a nuanced description of rare variation and its association with T2D, which might also apply to other complex diseases.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Rare-variant gene-level signals are likely to be distributed across numerous genes; however, the vast majority of signals individually explain vanishingly small amounts of T2D heritability: more than one million samples may be required for rare-variant signals in validated therapeutic targets to become significant exome-wide.
0	NA	MC4R	NA	DISCUSS	Even among the four genes that reached exome-wide significance in our analysis, two (MC4R and PAM) do not include unusually strong rare-variant associations but rather typically modest rare-variant associations that are boosted from nominal to exome-wide significance by low-frequency variants
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Thus, for biological discovery in many complex traits, such as T2D, exome sequencing and array-based GWAS seem complementary: locus discovery and fine mapping are achieved most efficiently using larger array-based GWAS, whereas rare coding variant allelic series:that could aid experimental gene characterization or provide confidence in disease-gene identification:are best discoverable through sequencing
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	For personalized medicine, exome sequencing may produce some rare variants with sufficient effect sizes (Supplementary Tables 12, 17) to provide viable contributions to the prediction of genetic risk; however, these are sufficiently rare to be best viewed as complements to rather than replacements for GWAS-derived polygenic risk scores.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Whole-genome sequencing might soon become sufficiently cost-effective to subsume both array-based GWAS and exome sequencing; even now, it is essential to expand imputation reference panels to power higher-resolution GWAS across all major ethnicities
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our results suggest that, for now, maximizing the utility of exome sequencing will require drawing insights from associations that do not (yet) reach exome-wide significance.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	To help to interpret these suggestive associations, we present a principled and empirically calibrated Bayesian approach (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	4, Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	7 and Supplementary Table 18) to estimate the association probability for any variant in our dataset, highlighting its use to interpret variants in known disease genes and prioritize genes from animal model studies for further investigation.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Results and customized analyses from our study can be accessed through a public web portal (http://www.type2diabetesgenetics.org/), advancing the use of exome-sequencing data across many branches of biomedical research
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A full description of the methods used in this study is available as Supplementary Methods
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The experiments were not randomized and the investigators were not blinded to allocation during experiments and outcome assessment
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We drew samples for exome sequencing from six consortia, most of which consisted of multiple studies and are described fully in Supplementary Table 1.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	T2D case status was determined according to study-specific criteria described in full in in Supplementary Table 1 and the Supplementary Methods.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	All individuals provided informed consent and all samples were approved for use by their institution's institutional review board or ethics committee, as previously reported.
0	Wilford Hall USAF	NA	NA	METHODS	Samples that were newly sequenced at The Broad Institute as part of T2D-GENES, SIGMA and ProDiGY are covered under Partners Human Research Committee protocol 2017P000445/PHS 'Diabetes Genetics and Related Traits'
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The details of data generation, variant calling, quality control and variant annotation are described in full in the Supplementary Methods.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In brief, for each consortium, sequencing data were aggregated (if previously available) or newly generated (if not) and then processed through a standard variant calling pipeline.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We then measured samples and variants according to several metrics indicative of sequencing quality, excluding those that were outliers relative to the global distribution (Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	1, Supplementary Table 2).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These exclusions produced a 'clean' dataset of 49,484 samples and 7.02 million variants
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Following initial sample and variant quality control, we performed additional rounds of sample exclusion from association analysis (Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	2).
0	diabetes	NA	NA	METHODS	We also excluded the 3,510 childhood diabetes cases from the SEARCH and TODAY studies based on an analysis that suggested their lack of matched controls would induce artefacts in gene-level association analyses (Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	17).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These exclusions produced an 'analysis' dataset of 45,231 individuals and 6.33 million variants.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A power analysis of this dataset is presented in the Supplementary Methods
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	After these three rounds of sample exclusions, we estimated:within each ancestry:pairwise identity-by-descent values, genetic relatedness matrices and principal components for use in downstream association analyses.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used the identity-by-descent values to generate lists of unrelated individuals within each ancestry, excluding 2,157 individuals to produce an 'unrelated analysis' set of43,090 individuals (19,828 cases and 23,262 controls) and 6.29 million non-monomorphic variants.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used this set of individuals and variants for single-variant and gene-level tests (described below) that required an unrelated set of individuals
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We annotated variants with the ENSEMBL Variant Effect Predictor (VEP, version 87).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We produced both transcript-level annotations for each variant as well as a 'best guess' gene-level annotation using the -flag-pick-allele option (with ranked criteria described in the Supplementary Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used the VEP LofTee (https://github.com/konradjk/loftee) and dbNSFP (version 3.2) plugins to generate additional bioinformatics predictions of variant deleteriousness; from the dbNSFP plugin, we took annotations from 15 different bioinformatics algorithms (listed in Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	mCAP	NA	METHODS	5) and then added annotations from the mCAP algorithm.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	As these annotations were not transcript-specific, we assigned them to all transcripts for the purpose of downstream analysis
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Although we incorporated both transcript-level and gene-level annotations into gene-level analyses (see below), all single-variant analyses reported in the manuscript or figures are annotated using the 'best guess' annotation for each variant
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To perform single-variant association analyses, we first stratified samples by cohort of origin and sequencing technology (with some exceptions described in the Supplementary Methods), yielding 25 distinct sample subgroups (Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	3).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each subgroup, we performed additional variant quality control beyond that used for the 'clean' dataset, excluding variants according to subgroup-specific criteria described in Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	3; in general, these criteria were strict:particularly for multiallelic variants and X-chromosome variants.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We verified that these filters led to a well-calibrated final analysis through inspection of quantile-quantile plots within and across ancestries (Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	4)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each of the 25 sample subgroups, we then conducted two single-variant association analyses: one of all (including related) samples using the (two-sided) EMMAX test and one of unrelated samples using the (two-sided) Firth logistic regression test.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Both analyses included covariates for sequencing technology, and the Firth analysis included covariates for principal components of genetic ancestry (those among the first 10 that showed P < 0.05 association with T2D)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We then conducted a 25-group fixed-effect inverse-variance weighted meta-analysis for each of the Firth and EMMAX tests, using METAL.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used EMMAX results for association P values and Firth results for effect size estimates
0	NA	NA	rs145181683	METHODS	To assess whether the rs145181683 variant in SFH (P = 3.2 x 10-8 in the exome-sequencing analysis) represented a true novel association, we obtained association statistics from 4,522 Latinos) who did not overlap with the current study.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	On the basis of the odds ratio (1.19) estimated in our analysis and the MAF (12.7%) in the replication sample, the power was 91% to achieve P < 0.05 under a one-sided association test.
0	NA	NA	rs145181683	METHODS	The observed evidence (P = 0.90, odds ratio = 1.00) did not support rs145181683 as a true T2D association.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Further investigation of this lack of replication evidence suggested that, although the association from our sequence analysis is unlikely to be a technical artefact (genotyping quality was high), it could possibly be a proxy for a different (Native American-specific) non-coding causal variant (full details are available in the Supplementary Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Further fine-mapping and replication efforts will be necessary to test this hypothesis
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each gene, following previous studies, we separately tested seven different 'masks' of variants grouped by similar predicted severity (defined in Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	5).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each gene and each mask, we created up to three groupings of alleles, corresponding to different transcript sets of the gene; for many genes, two or more of these allele groupings were identical
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Before running gene-level tests, we performed additional quality control on sample genotypes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each of the 25 sample subgroups (the same as used for single-variant analyses), we identified variants that failed subgroup-specific quality control criteria (shown in Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	5) and set genotypes for these variants in all individuals in the subgroup as 'missing'
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We conducted two gene-level association tests: a burden test, which assumes all analysed variants within a gene are of the same effect, and SKAT, which allows variability in variant effect size (and direction); each of these tests is two-sided.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We performed each test across all unrelated individuals with 10 principal components of genetic ancestry, sample subgroup and sequencing technology as covariates.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	As this 'mega-analysis' strategy was different from the meta-analysis strategy that we used for single-variant analyses, as a quality control exercise we conducted a single-variant mega-analysis and found that its results showed broad correlation with those from the original meta-analysis (Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	18)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We then developed two methods to consolidate the 2 x 7 = 14 P values produced for each gene (described in full in Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	5, Supplementary Methods and Supplementary Figs.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	5, 6).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	First, we corrected the smallest P value for each gene according to the effective number of independent masks tested for the gene (variable, but on average 3.6), based on the gene-specific correlation of variants across masks (referred to as the minimum P-value test; Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	19).
0	haploinsufficiency	NA	NA	METHODS	Second, we tested all nonsynonymous variants (that is, missense, splice site and protein-truncating mutations), but weighted each variant according to its estimated probability of causing gene inactivation (referred to as the weighted test, which essentially assessed the effect of gene haploinsufficiency from combined analysis of protein-truncating and missense variants; Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	6).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We verified that these two consolidation methods were well-calibrated (Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	6) and broadly consistent yet distinct: across the 10 most significantly associated genes, P values were nominally significant using both methods for 8 genes but varied by 1-3 orders of magnitude (Extended Data Table 2)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Because each gene mask could in fact represent up to three sets of alleles (owing to the transcript-specific annotation strategy that we used), for each of the four analyses multiple P values were possible for some genes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To produce a single gene-level P value for each of the four analyses, we thus collapsed (for each gene) the set of P values across transcript sets into a single gene-level P value using the minimum P-value test
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used a conservative Bonferroni-corrected gene-level exome-wide significance threshold of P = 0.05/(2 tests x 2 consolidation methods x 19,020 genes) = 6.57 x 10-7.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each gene referenced in the manuscript, we report the P value and odds ratio from the analysis that achieved the lowest P value for the gene
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In principle, a nearby common-variant association could lead to over- or underestimation of the strength of a gene-level association.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To assess whether differential patterns of rare variation across common-variant haplotypes could significantly affect our gene-level results, we conducted two analyses (described in the Supplementary Methods) and found no evidence that confounding from common-variant haplotypes was primarily responsible for the associations that were observed in our gene-level analyses
0	NA	SLC30A8	NA	METHODS	For our exome-wide significant gene-level associations (M C 4R, P A M and SLC30A8), we conducted additional gene-level analyses to dissect the aggregate signals that were observed.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	First, we performed tests by progressively removing alleles in order of lowest single-variant analysis P value, in order to understand the (minimum) number of alleles that contributed statistically to the aggregate signal.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Second, we performed tests conditional on each allele in the sequence (that is, calculating separate models with each individual allele as a covariate), and we then compared the resulting P values to the full gene-level P value, in order to assess the contribution of each allele individually to the signal.
0	NA	MC4R	rs79783591	METHODS	Finally, for MC4R, we conducted an analysis with an added sample covariate for body-mass index and found that it, as shown previously, reduces the significance of both the Ile269Asn single-variant signal (P = 1.0 x 10-5) and the gene-level signal not attributable to Ile269Asn (P = 0.035)
0	NA	MC4R	NA	METHODS	To evaluate which ancestries contributed variants to MC4R, SLC30A8, and PAM, we calculated the proportion of variants in each signal unique to an ancestry and also compared the significance and direction of effect of each signal across ancestries.
0	NA	MC4R	NA	METHODS	Across the three signals, 68.4% (287 out of 419) of variants in total were unique to one ancestry (63.9% for MC4R, 67.0% for SLC30A8 and 71.6% for PAM).
0	NA	MC4R	NA	METHODS	Each signal had a direction of effect that was consistent across all five ancestries and each signal achieved P < 0.05 in at least two ancestries (MC4R in East-Asians and Hispanics; SLC30A8 in all ancestries other than African-Americans; and PAM in Europeans, South-Asians and Hispanics)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We obtained gene-level association results that were previously computed from an analysis of 49,199 individuals (12,973 T2D cases and 36,226 controls) from the Geisinger Health System (GHS).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Association statistics were available for 44 out of the 50 genes with the strongest gene-level associations from our study.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A power analysis of the GHS replication analysis is available in the Supplementary Methods
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	GHS sequencing data were processed and analysed as previously described, and variants were grouped into four (nested) masks (roughly corresponding to the LofTee, 5/5, 1/5 1% and 0/5 1% masks; more details are available in the Supplementary Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each mask, association results were computed using two-sided logistic regression under an additive burden model (with pheno-type regressed on the number of variants carried by each individual) with age, age and sex as covariates.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To produce a single GHS P value for each gene, we applied the minimum P-value procedure across the four mask-level results
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We collaborated with the CHARGE consortium to analyse the 50 genes with the strongest gene-level associations from our study in 12,467 individuals (3,062 T2D cases and 9,405 controls) from their previously described study.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A power analysis of the CHARGE replication analysis is available in the Supplementary Methods
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Variants in the CHARGE exomes were annotated and grouped into seven masks using the same procedure as for the original exome-sequencing analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Burden and SKAT association tests were then performed in the Analysis Commons using a two-sided logistic mixed model assuming an additive genetic model and adjusted for age, sex, study, race and kinship.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To produce a single CHARGE P value for each gene, we applied the minimum P-value procedure across the seven mask-level results, as for the GHS analysis
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We conducted a meta-analysis among our original burden analysis and those of CHARGE and GHS.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each gene, we selected the mask that achieved the lowest P value in our original analysis and conducted a two-sided sample-size weighted meta-analysis with the results from CHARGE and GHS for the same mask (or an analogous mask as defined in the Supplementary Methods)
0	NA	UBE2NL	NA	METHODS	We investigated the novel association that was found in the gene-level meta-analysis (UBE2NL, meta-analysis P = 5.6 x 10-7) in more detail.
0	NA	UBE2NL	NA	METHODS	The UBE2NL burden signal was due to five PTVs in the original analysis (observed in 29 cases and 1 control; all of which had high (> 4 5 x) sequencing coverage; Supplementary Table 8) and was replicated at P = 0.02 in CHARGE; UBE2NL results were not available in GHS.
0	NA	UBE2NL	NA	METHODS	As UBE2NL lies on the X chromosome, we conducted a sex-stratified analysis of the original samples and observed independent associations in both men (P = 5.7 x 10-4) and women (P = 1.6 x 10-3).
0	NA	UBE2NL	NA	METHODS	UBE2NL does not lie near any known GWAS associations (http://www.type2diabetesgenetics.org/) and has few available references, suggesting that it may be a novel T2D-relevant gene, although further replication will be important to establish its association
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We examined the concordance of direction of effect size estimates (that is, both odds ratios of > 1 or < 1) between burden tests from our original exome-sequencing analysis and those from CHARGE and GHS.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For the 46 genes advanced for replication with burden P < 0.05 for at least one mask (that is, ignoring those with evidence for association only under the SKAT model), we compared the direction of effect estimated for the mask with lowest P-value mask to that estimated for the same (or analogous) mask in the GHS or CHARGE analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We then conducted a one-sided exact binomial test to assess whether the fraction of results with consistent direction of effects was significantly greater than expected by chance
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We curated 16 sets of candidate T2D-relevant genes, defined in Supplementary Table 9 with criteria as specified in the Supplementary Methods.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each gene set, we constructed sets of matched genes with similar numbers and frequencies of variants within them (details are provided in the Supplementary Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A sensitivity analysis of this matching strategy is presented in the Supplementary Methods
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To conduct a gene set analysis, we then combined the genes in the gene set with the matched genes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Within the combined list of genes, we ranked genes using the P values observed for the minimum P-value burden test.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We then used a one-side Wilcoxon rank-sum test to assess whether genes in the gene set had significantly higher ranks than the comparison genes
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To assess whether gene-level associations from exome sequencing:which are composed mostly of rare variants independent of any GWAS associations:could prioritize potential effector genes within known T2D GWAS loci, we first assessed whether predicted effector genes (based on common-variant associations) were also enriched for rare coding variant associations.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Our analysis (described in full in the Supplementary Methods) indicated that effector genes predicted from common coding variant associations do show significant enrichments (P = 8.8 x 10-3), but effector genes predicted from transcript-level associations do not (P = 0.72)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We then curated a list of 94 T2D GWAS loci, and 595 genes that were within 250 kb of any T2D GWAS index variant, from a 2016 T2D genetics review and observed 40 with a P < 0.05 gene-level signal (Supplementary Table 12), greater than the 595 x 0.05 = 29.75 expected by chance (P = 0.038).
0	NA	SLC30A8	NA	METHODS	Only three (SLC30A8, PAM and HNF1A) were from the list that we curated of 11 genes with causal common coding variants.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We found that these 40 genes were significantly more enriched for protein interactions (P = 0.03; observed mean = 11.4, expected mean = 4.5) than the 184 genes implicated based on proximity to the index SNP (P = 0.64; observed mean = 21.1, expected mean = 21.9), although evaluation of the biological candidacy of these genes will ultimately require in-depth functional studies.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Rare coding variants could therefore, in principle, complement common-variant fine-mapping and experimental data to help to interpret T2D GWAS associations; however, our results indicate that much larger sample sizes and/or orthogonal experimental data will be required to clearly implicate specific effector genes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A full description of this analysis is included in the Supplementary Methods
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To assess whether gene-level association analyses of predicted deleterious variants could be used to predict therapeutic direction of effect, we compared odds ratios estimated from a modified weighted burden test procedure (described in the Supplementary Methods) to those expected for T2D drug targets (assuming agonist targets to have true odds ratios > 1 and inhibitors to have true odds ratios < 1).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For a similar comparison to expectations for mouse gene knockouts, we used the relationship between mouse phenotype and human phenotype specified in the Supplementary Methods.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Genes present in two gene sets with opposite expected direction of effects were excluded from this analysis
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To compare discoveries from our exome-sequencing analyses to discoveries possible from common-variant GWAS of the same samples, we aggregated all available SNP array data for the exome-sequenced samples (18,233 cases and 17,679 controls; Supplementary Table 13).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	After sample and variant quality control (described in the Supplementary Methods), we imputed variants from the 1000 Genomes Phase 3 (1000G) and Haplotype Reference Consortium (HRC) reference panels using the Michigan Imputation Server.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used 1000G-based imputation for all association analyses and HRC-based imputation to assess the number of exome-sequence variants imputable from the largest available European reference panel (details available in the Supplementary Methods)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	After imputation, we performed sample and variant quality control, as well as two-sided association tests, analogous to the exome-sequence single-variant analyses.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In contrast to the exome-sequencing analyses, a quantile-quantile plot suggested that the associations from the EMMAX test were not well calibrated, and we therefore used only the Firth test (that is, for both P values and odds ratios) in the imputed GWAS analysis
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To conduct gene set analysis with the imputed GWAS data, we first used the method implemented in MAGENTA to calculate gene scores from the imputed GWAS single-variant association results.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Following the same protocol as for gene set analysis from the exome-sequencing results, we then conducted a one-sided Wilcoxon rank-sum test to compare the gene scores to those of matched comparison genes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We followed the same approach for the gene set analysis that we conducted in a larger, previously published GWAS
0	NA	RR1	NA	METHODS	To calculate LVEs, we used a previously presented formula (equations are available in the Supplementary Methods) to calculate the LVE of a variant with three genotypes (AA, Aa and aa) and corresponding relative risks (1, RR1 and RR2).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	When presenting the strongest LVE values for the imputed GWAS analysis, we only considered variants that were genotyped in at least 10,000 individuals to avoid potential artefacts that result from a spurious association in a small-sample subgroup.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For gene-level LVE calculations, we used the variant mask with lowest P value to calculate LVEs.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We also conducted a sensitivity analysis to bound the extent to which our gene-level LVE estimates might be biased downwards due to their inclusion of benign alleles; this analysis (described in full in the Supplementary Methods) produced upper bounds of gene-level LVEs that were at most twofold higher than the point estimates
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To forecast the LVE that will be explained once 100 (or 1,000) significant T2D gene-level associations are detected, we applied a previously suggested model in which the LVE of a gene is related to its rank in the overall gene-level P-value distribution.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Specifically, the model is LVEn = ean + b where LVEn is the LVE of the gene with nth lowest gene-level P value.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We fitted this model using linear regression to the top 50 genes in our analysis (Supplementary Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	20), yielding estimates of a = -0.0 4 4 and b = -7.07.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We then calculated the LVE of the top 100 (or 1,000) genes by summing the actual LVE of the top three signals (which achieved exome-wide significance in our analysis) with the LVE predicted by the model for genes ranked 4-100 (or 4-1,000)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To estimate the power of future studies to detect gene-level associations in genes with effect sizes similar to those for established T2D drug targets, we used aggregate allele frequencies and odds ratios estimated from our gene-level analysis and an assumed prevalence of K = 0.08 to calculate a proxy for true population frequencies and relative risks.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each gene, we used odds ratios and frequencies from the variant mask that yielded the strongest gene-level association.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Because, on average, these drug targets had five effective tests per mask, we used an exome-wide significance threshold of a = 1.25 x 10-7 for power calculations.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We calculated power as previously described
0	000,000 SNPs	insulin receptor	NA	METHODS	The ranges given in the main text (75,000-185,000 disease cases) represent the numbers from the power calculations for INSR (the drug target with the highest observed effect size) and IGF1R (the drug target with the lowest observed effect size other than KCNJ11 and ABCC8).
0	NA	KCNJ11	NA	METHODS	We excluded KCNJ11 and ABCC8 from this reported range, given that a mixture of risk-increasing and risk-decreasing variants in these genes probably diluted their burden signals.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We did not account for uncertainty in estimated odds ratios or aggregate variant frequency in these calculations, as no genes had 95% confidence intervals that that did not overlap odds ratio = 1
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We quantified the PPA for nonsynonymous variants observed in our dataset as a function of association strength measured by single-variant P values.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We define a true association as a variant that, when studied in larger sample sizes, will eventually achieve statistical significance owing to a true odds ratio   1.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We distinguish true associations from causal associations: causally associated variants are the subset of truly associated variants in which the variant itself is causal for the increase in disease risk, as opposed to being truly associated due to linkage disequilibrium (LD) with a different causally associated variant (that is, an 'LD proxy').
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	An overview of the method that we developed for PPA calculations is provided in Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	7, and a full description of the method is included in the Supplementary Methods.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Here, we outline the steps in the approach
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	First, for various single-variant P-value thresholds in the exome-sequencing analysis, we calculated the fraction of variants that reached this threshold with directions of effect concordant with those of an independent exome array study.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For example, 61.3% of nonsynonymous variants within T2D GWAS loci that reached P < 0.05 in the exome-sequencing analysis had concordant directions of effect with the independent study, a fraction that decreased (as expected) for higher P-value thresholds (for example, 49.4% at P > 0.5) or when only variants outside of T2D GWAS loci were analysed (51.9% at P < 0.05)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Second, we derived an equation to convert the fraction of concordant associations to an estimated proportion of true associations.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This value provides a PPA estimate, as a function of P value, for an arbitrary variant in the set initially used to calculate direction of effect concordances.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We computed separate mappings for arbitrary nonsynonymous variants (using all exome-wide nonsynonymous variants) and one for nonsynonymous variants within GWAS loci (using only non-synonymous variants within the 94 T2D GWAS loci).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We note that the mapping produced from our analysis applies only to the results from the current study: because other studies have different sample sizes and may apply different statistical tests, the mapping would need to be recomputed to interpret the associations of other studies using the same method
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Third, we converted PPA estimates to estimates of the posterior probability of causal associations (PPAc).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This conversion requires estimates of the fraction of coding variant associations that are causal (as opposed to LD proxies).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We explored several values for this parameter, as described in the Supplementary Methods and shown in Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	8
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Fourth, we extended PPA estimates to incorporate gene-specific priors by mapping posterior odds of causal association (POc) to a Bayes factor for causal association (BFc).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This calculation requires a set of training variants with a known prior.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For this training set, we use nonsynonymous variants within GWAS loci and modelling assumptions for their prior.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Details of this model are described in the Supplementary Methods and a sensitivity analysis of its assumptions is shown in Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	8
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Finally, as a preliminary estimate of a principled prior likelihood for genes in the mouse NIDD gene set, we estimated the proportion of non-null associations across all genes in the set.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To use true prior data (rather than associations from the current study), we calculated gene-level P values for each gene in the set using the MAGENTA algorithm applied to a recent transethnic T2D GWAS.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We then used a previously developed approach that models the distribution of observed P values as a mixture of uniform (representing the null distribution) and beta (representing the non-null distribution) distributions, yielding a prior value of 23.2%
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Our PPAc calculations currently have several limitations.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	They apply only to single-variant associations and not (yet) to gene-level associations; extending them to apply to gene-level associations would avoid the possibility of conflicting results among variants within a gene but would require larger-scale gene-level replication data than that we had available in the current analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Additional work will also be needed to generate data and develop methods to estimate objective rather than subjective gene priors (researchers can often overestimate evidence of disease relevance for genes in which they have invested considerable effort), to reduce dependence of our conclusions on modelling assumptions (Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	8) and to explore the extent to which the large number of variant associations that we predict from our data localize to specific gene or variant functional annotations
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Further information on research design is available in the Nature Research Reporting Summary linked to this paper
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The power to detect associations (using a two-sided test) at P < 5 x 10-8 for variants (or collections of variants) with a given minor allele frequency (x axis) and odds ratio (y axis) measured as the average across all ancestries.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	a, Cells are shaded according to the power of the current study of 20,791 T2D cases and 24,440 controls, with white indicating high power and red indicating low power.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The 20%, 50%, 80% and 99% contour lines are labelled.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	b, Cells are shaded according to the difference in power between the current study and a previously published study of 12,940 individuals, with yellow-white indicating a large increase in power and red indicating a small increase in power.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The 20%, 40%, 60% and 80% contour lines are labelled
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	A schematic of the steps involved in sample and variant quality control is shown.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Quality control was conducted as described in the Methods to construct a set of samples and variants included in the association analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Each step is depicted as an arrow, with the number of samples or variants excluded by the step shown at the end of the arrow.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The final set of samples and variants analysed are represented by the 'Analysis' dataset; we further excluded samples of high relatedness to other samples in the dataset from some but not all analyses.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	After each step that removed samples, we also removed newly monomorphic variants (hence the decrease in variants between the 'Clean' and 'Analysis' datasets)
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	A schematic of the steps involved in single-variant exome-sequencing association analysis is shown, as described in the Methods.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	We began analysis with a division of samples in the 'Analysis' dataset (leftmost column) into 25 different subgroups (second column from the left) based on cohort, ancestry and sequencing technology.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	We then filtered variants according to metrics computed separately for each subgroup; we applied the filters listed in the 'Basic filters' box to all subgroups and for some subgroups we applied additional (more stringent) filters as indicated by boxes in the third column from the left.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The resulting number of variants and samples advanced for analysis in each subgroup are indicated in the fourth column from the left.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	We analysed each subgroup with both the EMMAX test (to measure association strength) and the Firth test (to measure allelic odds ratios), each of which are two-sided; the number of principal components included as covariates in the Firth test is shown in the fifth column from the left.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Finally, we combined each of the EMMAX and Firth subgroup-level results using a 25-group meta-analysis to produce the final P values and odds ratios reported for each variant.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Multi, variant is multiallelic; CR, call rate; P, variant subgroup-level P value; P(Fisher), variant subgroup-level P value from Fisher's exact test; P(miss), P value for subgroup-level variant differential missingness between T2D cases and controls; P(HW E), P value for deviation from subgroup-level Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium; Alt GQ, mean genotype quality of non-reference genotypes (across all samples); X Chrom, variant is on X chromosome
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	To assess whether our single-variant association statistics (two-sided, calculated by the EMMAX test) were well-calibrated, we computed quantile-quantile plots of associations across all samples (Overall) and within each ancestry (total n = 45,231 individuals).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	To avoid deflation of the quantile-quantile plot from rare variants (for which the expected P values are discrete rather than uniformly distributed), only variants with minor allele counts of 20 or greater (either overall or within the relevant ancestry) are shown.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Variants were also LD-pruned before plotting, to avoid induced variance from correlated P values of these variants, using the 'clump' method implemented in PLINK.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The lambda values indicate genomic control, as measured by the ratio in observed median chi2 statistic to that expected under the null hypothesis.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Red line, expectation of P values under the null distribution.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Blue lines (and grey region), 95% confidence interval of expectations under the null distribution
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	A schematic of the steps involved in gene-level exome-sequencing association analysis, as described in Methods, is shown.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	We began analysis with subgroup-level genotype filtering (second column from the left) of unrelated samples in the 'Analysis' dataset (leftmost column); we then applied genotype filters for each subgroup (filtering genotypes for either all or no samples in each subgroup), similar to those used in subgroup-level single-variant analyses.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	We then annotated each non-reference variant allele with 16 different bioinformatics algorithms to assess allele deleteriousness, and we grouped alleles into one of seven nested masks (third column from the left; the number of variants and weights shown correspond to alleles absent from 'higher', or more stringent, nested masks).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	We computed burden and SKAT analyses (both of which are two-sided) using one of two approaches to combine alleles across masks (Methods): first, by analysing all alleles at once with weights assigned according to the most stringent mask containing the allele (weighted test); and second, by analysing each mask independently and then calculating the lowest P value corrected for the effective number of tests (minimum P-value test).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Multi, variant is multiallelic; CR, call rate; P(miss), P value for subgroup-level variant differential missingness between T2D cases and controls; P(HW E), P value for deviation from subgroup-level Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium; Alt GQ, mean genotype quality of non-reference genotypes (across all samples)
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	For both the burden and SKAT tests, we tested for gene-level association within seven different allelic masks.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	As this produced seven P values for each test, we developed two means to consolidate these results (Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	a, b, The quantile-quantile plots of associations are shown for the minimum P-value burden test (a) and the weighted burden test (b).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Each test is two-sided and consists of n = 43,071 unrelated individuals.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Only genes with combined minor allele count of 20 or greater are shown in the quantile-quantile plots, to avoid deflation from genes with too few variants to produce P values asymptotically uniform under the null distribution.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The lambda values indicate genomic control, as measured by the ratio in observed median chi statistic to that expected under the null hypothesis.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The three genes with exome-wide significant associations are labelled.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Red line, expectation of P values under the null distribution.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Blue lines (and grey region), 95% confidence interval of expectations under the null distribution
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	a, We estimated the PPAs for nonsynonymous variants in our sequence analysis based on concordance with independent exome array data and previously published6,78,80 estimates of the fraction of causal coding associations (Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	b, PPA estimates for nonsynonymous variants within T2D GWAS loci are shown as a function of P value (right y axis, black line; 95% confidence interval, grey shading) together with the total number of such variants (left y axis, red line).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	c, For variants outside of T2D GWAS loci, we developed a method to further compute Bayes factors, which measure the odds of true and causal association, as a function of P value, using a model of the prior odds of true and causal association for variants in GWAS loci (Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	d, These Bayes factors can be combined with a subjective prior belief in the T2D relevance of a gene (y axis) to produce the estimated posterior probability of true and causal association for any nonsynonymous variant in the exome-sequence dataset based on its observed log10(P) (x axis).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Posterior estimates are shaded proportional to value (red, low; white, high).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Values are shown for the default modelling assumptions of 33% of missense variants that caused gene inactivation and 30% of true missense associations that represented the causal variant
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	We estimated the posterior probability of association for nonsynonymous variants that met various single-variant P-value thresholds (two-sided EMMAX test, n = 45,231 individuals) in our analysis, as described in the Methods and shown in Extended Data Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	7.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	To perform the needed calculations, we assumed that, on average, 1.1 genes that are found within each T2D GWAS locus are relevant to T2D and 33% of missense mutations within these genes cause gene loss-of-function.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	a-f, To assess the sensitivity of our analysis to these assumptions, we repeated the calculations with different assumptions of 0.5 (a), 2.0 (b), 0.25 (c) and 0.1 (d) T2D-relevant genes within each GWAS locus, as well as 25% (e) and 40% (f) of missense variants leading to loss-of-function.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	All analyses assume the default modelling parameters that 30% of true nonsynonymous associations are causal associations; different values for this parameter would scale posterior probability estimates linearly
0	NA	NA	NA	SUPPL	Sequence data and phenotypes for this study are available via the database of Genotypes and Phenotypes (dbGAP) and/or the European Genome-phenome Archive, as indicated in Supplementary Table 1
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	a, Single-variant associations were calculated using the two-sided EMMAX test.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Red line, P = 4.3 x 10-7. b, Gene-level P values, corrected for four analyses performed using the two-sided minimum P-value test.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The most-significant genes are labelled.
0	NA	SLC30A8	NA	FIG	Red line, P = 6.5 x 10-7. c, SLC 30A8 gene-level P values (left y axis, black line), calculated using a two-sided burden test after removing variants (in order of increasing single-variant P value) from the 1/5 1% mask (the strongest signal for SLC30A8).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Dashed line, P = 0.05.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Right y axis (blue line), estimated effect size (log10 (odds ratio)).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Blue shading, 95% confidence interval.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Dotted line, effect size = 0.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Single-variant n = 45,231 individuals.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Gene-level n = 43,074 unrelated individuals
0	diabetes	NA	NA	FIG	a-e, Rank percentiles (1 = highest) for gene-level associations (compared to matched genes) within 11 monogenic diabetes genes (548 matched genes) (a), 8 T2D drug targets (400 matched genes) (b), 31 genes linked to NIDD in mice (1,499 matched genes) (c), 323 genes linked to impaired glucose tolerance in mice (10,043 matched genes) (d) and 11 genes with common likely causal coding variants (537 matched genes) (e).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	P values are from a one-sided Wilcoxon rank-sum test between each gene set and comparison set.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Labels indicate minimum, 25th percentile, median, 75th percentile and maximum.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	f, Estimated odds ratios, from the weighted burden test of the 5/5 mask, for 8 T2D drug targets (red, agonists; blue, inhibitors).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Data are mean +- s.e.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	of log(odds ratio) from the burden test.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	n = 43,071 unrelated individuals
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	a, Single-variant associations, calculated by two-sided Firth logistic regression, from an array-based imputed GWAS of the subset (n = 34,529) of samples in the exome-sequencing analysis for which array data were available.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Labels and axes as described in Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	1a.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	b, The observed liability variance explained (LVE) by the top 19 exome-sequencing gene-level associations (red) and the top 19 imputed GWAS single-variant associations (maximum of 1 per 250 kb; blue) and their ratio (black).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Signals ranked by liability variance explained.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	c, Gene rank percentiles from exome-sequencing gene-level analysis (x axis) and a previous multiancestry T2D GWAS (y axis).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Genes are from the mouse NIDD gene set (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	2c)
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	a, Estimated power, as a function of future sample size (x axis), to detect T2D gene-level associations (two-sided test at P = 6.25 x 10-7) with aggregate frequency and odds ratios equal to those estimated from our analysis of 8 T2D drug targets (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	2 f).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	b, A proposed workflow for using exome-sequencing data in gene characterization.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Depending on the prior belief in the disease relevance of a gene, the cost of experimental characterization and the benefit of gene validation, a decision to conduct the experiment could be informed by the posterior probability of the disease relevance of the gene, as estimated from exome-sequencing association statistics (available through http://www.type2diabetesgenetics.org/)
