0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	The etiology of neuroendocrine tumors remains poorly defined.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Although neuroendocrine tumors are in some cases associated with inherited genetic syndromes, such syndromes are rare.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	The majority of neuroendocrine tumors are thought to be sporadic.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) to identify potential genetic risk factors for sporadic neuroendocrine tumors.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Using germline DNA from blood specimens, we genotyped 909,622 SNPs using the Affymetrix 6.0 GeneChip, in a cohort comprising 832 neuroendocrine tumor cases from Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Massachusetts General Hospital and 4542 controls from the Harvard School of Public Health.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	An additional 241 controls from Dana-Farber Cancer Institute were used for quality control.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We assessed risk associations in the overall cohort, and in neuroendocrine tumor subgroups.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We identified no potential risk associations in the cohort overall.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	In the small intestine neuroendocrine tumor subgroup, comprising 293 cases, we identified risk associations with three SNPs on chromosome 12, all in strong LD.
0	NA	ELK3	NA	ABSTRACT	The three SNPs are located upstream of ELK3, a transcription factor implicated in angiogenesis.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We did not identify clear risk associations in the bronchial or pancreatic neuroendocrine subgroups.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	This large-scale study provides initial evidence that presumed sporadic small intestine neuroendocrine tumors may have a genetic etiology.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Our results provide a basis for further exploring the role of genes implicated in this analysis, and for replication studies to confirm the observed associations.
0	pancreatic	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Additional studies to evaluate potential genetic risk factors for sporadic pancreatic and bronchial neuroendocrine tumors are warranted
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	The current annual incidence of neuroendocrine tumors in the United States is estimated to be 5.25 per 100,000 population, and the prevalence is estimated to exceed 100,000 individuals.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	Neuroendocrine tumors are characterized by well-differentiated morphologic features and the ability to secrete neuropeptides, resulting in characteristic clinical syndromes.
0	carcinoid tumour	NA	NA	INTRO	The best known of these syndromes is the carcinoid syndrome, which is characterized by excess secretion of serotonin and the development of flushing, diarrhea and right-sided valvular heart disease.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	Neuroendocrine tumors arising in the pancreas are categorized as 'pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors' or 'islet cell tumors' and comprise approximately 10% of neuroendocrine tumors.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	Neuroendocrine tumors arising in other anatomic locations are generally described as 'carcinoid tumors'.
0	carcinoid tumour	NA	NA	INTRO	The most common sites for carcinoid tumors are the lungs and bronchi, which account for up to 30% of all neuroendocrine tumors, with small intestine, appendix and rectal carcinoid tumors comprising the majority of the remaining sites.
0	gastrointestinal cancers	NA	NA	INTRO	Within the gastrointestinal tract, carcinoid tumors arising in the small intestine are the most common
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	Mendelian syndromes associated with the development of neuroendocrine tumors have been well described.
0	Multiple endocrine neoplasia type	MEN1	NA	INTRO	Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1, caused by mutations in the tumor suppressor gene MEN1, has been associated with the development of neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas, lung and thymus, as well as adenomas of the parathyroid and pituitary glands.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Additional modifying genetic factors also appear to play a role in this condition.
0	Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2	RET	NA	INTRO	Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN2), caused by mutations in the RET proto-oncogene, is characterized by the development of paraganglioma/pheochromocytoma and medullary thyroid cancer.
0	pheochromocytoma	VHL	NA	INTRO	Pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma, a rare group of neuroendocrine tumors not specifically included in our study, are commonly associated with germline mutations, which have been described in a number of genes, including VHL, NF1, RET, genes in the succinate dehydrogenase pathway, and, less commonly, TMEM127, MAX, EPAS1, FH and MDH2
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	Inherited syndromes, however, are thought to account for only a small minority of pancreatic neuroendocrine and carcinoid tumor cases.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	Furthermore, no clearly established environmental risk factors for neuroendocrine tumors have been identified.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	Case control studies have provided conflicting data regarding potential links between the development of neuroendocrine tumors and smoking or other exposures.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	"An inherited basis for presumed ""sporadic"" neuroendocrine tumors has been suggested by evidence of familial clustering of neuroendocrine tumors described in both case series and population-based studies."
0	carcinoid tumour	NA	NA	INTRO	An institutional analysis of 243 carcinoid cases, as well as an initial population-based analysis of a Swedish Family-Cancer Database comprising 10.2 million individuals, identified increased incidence rates of carcinoid tumors in first-degree relatives.
0	carcinoid tumour	NA	NA	INTRO	A subsequent, more recent analysis of the Swedish database confirmed the increased risk in first-degree relatives of individuals with carcinoid tumors, reporting a relative risk of 4.33.
0	cancers	NA	NA	INTRO	Another study, combining family cancer datasets from Sweden and Finland, provided specific evidence of familial associations in individuals with small intestine carcinoid tumors: siblings of individuals with small intestine carcinoid tumors had a 30-fold higher risk of developing the same condition, and parents or children a 10-fold increased risk.
0	carcinoid tumour	NA	NA	INTRO	A recent study that focused on families with small intestine carcinoid tumors revealed the presence of multifocal and independent tumors arising within the small intestine, consistent with the presence of an inherited susceptibility gene.
0	NA	IPMK	NA	INTRO	Inherited mutations in the gene IPMK were identified in one such family, though not in other families
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	Initial attempts at performing genome-wide association studies to identify genetic risk factors in neuroendocrine tumors have been limited by small sample size.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Although candidate loci have been reported in these studies, they have not been replicated and the results of these initial studies have been inconclusive.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	To further investigate a potential heritable basis for sporadic neuroendocrine tumors, we performed a large-scale genome-wide association study evaluating over 900,000 SNPs, using the Affymetrix 6.0 Chip.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	INTRO	We genotyped 832 specimens from a prospectively enrolled population of neuroendocrine tumor patients from our center, and compared genotype frequencies to over 4500 control cases from two large cohort studies, the Nurse's Health Study and the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	We analyzed potential risk associations in the cohort overall and within NET subgroups
0	small cell lung cancer	NA	NA	METHODS	Patients with a confirmed diagnosis of NET (excluding small cell lung cancer) were recruited to an Institutional Review Board-approved study in the gastrointestinal clinic at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI).
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	METHODS	A total of 1396 patients with neuroendocrine tumor were recruited to a prospective follow-up study between 2003 and 2012.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Of these patients, 1265 provided blood specimens, and 942 specimens were subsequently genotyped.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	METHODS	Twenty-five of these cases had previously also been evaluated in the previously described multicenter study of small intestine neuroendocrine tumor risk, and 370 of the cases had been included in the prior study from our center evaluating potential risk associations in candidate genes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Consent had been obtained from each patient after a full explanation of the purpose and nature of all procedures used.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Baseline clinical and demographic information was derived from both questionnaires and from the medical record.
0	Women's Cancer	NA	NA	METHODS	All pathology was reviewed in the Pathology Department at Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer Center at the time of patient consultation
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	METHODS	Due to a limited number of bronchial neuroendocrine tumors in the Dana-Farber cohort, an additional set of 75 patients with histologically confirmed well-differentiated (typical or atypical) neuroendocrine tumor were included from Harvard Lung Cancer Susceptibility Study conducted from 1992 to 2011 at the Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Cancer Center, also in Boston.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This study was approved by the Human Subjects Committees of Massachusetts General Hospital and the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston, MA, USA.
0	cancers	NA	NA	METHODS	Patients completed a questionnaire before time of first visit that included clinical and demographic data, as well as past medical and family cancer history.
0	cancers	NA	NA	METHODS	Unreported clinical information, including tumor type, histology and stage was extracted from the medical record
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Two hundred and ninety-one healthy controls were recruited from Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI) and genotyped along with the cases for quality control (QC).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Healthy controls were recruited from friends and nonblood-related family members who accompanied the patients to the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute clinic from and volunteered to participate in the study.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These DFCI controls completed the same questionnaire as the cases.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The primary comparator controls consisted of 4622 healthy individuals identified from the Nurses Health Study (NHS) and the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study (HPFS).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These controls are henceforth referred to as Harvard controls
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	DNA samples for cases and for the DFCI controls (used for QC) were genotyped using the Affymetrix GeneChip Human Mapping 6.0 set (Affymetrix) at the Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The Harvard controls had been previously genotyped on the Affymetrix 6.0 platform.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We genotyped 909,622 SNPs with 1308 total samples (this does not include 14 HapMap samples genotyped making the total 1322).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In brief, before merging, an initial Affymetrix quality control check identified 35 samples that did not pass the FQC genotyping call rate of >86% on a subset of 3022 SNPs or that failed a process QC.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	SNPs were identified on the remaining 1273 samples using the Birdsuite calling algorithm.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Standard data QC procedure was then separately applied to the cases (along with DFCI controls) and primary comparator controls since they come from different sources.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For the cases and DFCI controls, 125 samples were excluded for high missing data rates of <95% completion or outlier over three SD outlier proportions of heterozygous genotypes, or incorrect gender, or genotypic relatedness to other subjects (IBD pi > 0.185) or unexpected duplicates, or reclassified ineligible diagnosis or population outliers (over 3 SD) of the first two principal components using HapMap III with EIGENSTRAT.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This left 888 cases and 259 DFCI controls that were genotyped.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	After combining these 259 DFCI controls with the 4622 NHS and HPFS healthy primary comparator controls, we had a total of 4881 controls
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Common SNPs (646,368) for cases and controls were identified, and their data were merged.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Similar QC measures were then performed using PLINK on the merged data to ensure homogeneity in terms of missingness and ancestry in the combined sample.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Three cases and 18 controls were excluded for high missing data rates of <95% completion, or genotypic relatedness to other subjects (IBD pi >0.185).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We then used PLINK to select 105,845 independent markers (pairwise r2 < 0.2) to conduct a principal component analysis to detect potential population stratification.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	One hundred and thirty-three outliers (53 cases and 80 controls, over six SD) of the first ten principal components were identified and removed.
0	NA	MAF	NA	METHODS	We then extracted SNPs with MAF >1%, genotyping call rate >95%, P value for Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium (HWE) test in the controls >10-5, P value for HWE in combined cases and controls >10-6 (to eliminate allele flips) and P value for difference in missing data rate between cases and controls >10-6.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To identify markers that were potentially genotyped with error, we performed a logistic regression comparing DFCI controls with Harvard controls and eliminated SNPs with a P value smaller than 0.01.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The final data contain 613,218 SNPs from 5615 samples (832 cases and 4783 controls)
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	METHODS	We used an additive genetic model (test for trend) to evaluate the associations of SNP with neuroendocrine tumor risk.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Logistic regression was performed, comparing all cases to all controls, for each SNP, adjusting for gender, age (at diagnosis for cases and at blood draw for controls) and the first 10 principal components (PCs).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used PLINK to perform regression analyses.
0	error and experimental error	NA	NA	METHODS	Measures of the genomic control lambda close to one and an inspection of a quantile-quantile plot did not demonstrate a systematic deviation from the expected distribution, minimizing the likelihood of systematic genotype error bias due to underlying population substructure.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We set the genome-wide significance threshold at 5 x 10-8
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	After quality control, 862 cases, 241 DFCI controls (QC-controls) and 4542 Harvard controls were used in the analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The median age of the cases was 54.7 years, and the median age of the Harvard controls was 60.8; a slight female preponderance was observed in both cases and controls.
0	cancers	NA	NA	RESULTS	Of the cases, 293 had small intestine tumors, 156 pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and 128 bronchial neuroendocrine tumors.
0	cancers	NA	NA	RESULTS	Only 4% of the cases had tumor histologies classified as poorly differentiated.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Although complete ethnicity data on all cases were not available, of the available cases, 93% self-reported as Caucasian.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The primary controls consisted of healthy Caucasian individuals identified from the Nurses' Health Study (NHS) and the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study (HPFS).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Further characteristics of the cases and controls are shown in Table 1
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	A logistic regression comparing all NET cases to the Harvard controls was first performed for each SNP, adjusting for gender, age (at diagnosis for cases and at blood draw for controls) and the first 10 PCs.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	No SNP passed the genome-wide significance threshold of P < 5 x 10-8.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Figure 1 displays the Manhattan plot and the quantile-quantile (QQ) plot for the overall analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The genomic control lambda was 1.06
0	pancreatic	NA	NA	RESULTS	Given potential genetic differences between lung, small intestine and pancreatic NET, we also evaluated risk associations in these subgroups separately.
0	cancers	NA	NA	RESULTS	Genetic differences between well-differentiated and poorly differentiated tumors have also been reported, but the small number of poorly differentiated tumors in our cohort precluded this subgroup analysis.
0	carcinoid tumour	NA	NA	RESULTS	For lung NET, a logistic regression comparing 128 lung carcinoid cases to the Harvard controls was performed for each SNP, adjusting for gender, age (at diagnosis for cases and at blood draw for controls) and the first 10 PCs.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The genomic control lambda was 1.12.
0	NA	NA	rs10827565	RESULTS	Although one SNP, rs10827565, on chromosome 10, passed the genome-wide significance threshold (Odds ratio 2.992, P = 9.7e-12), it is not located on a known gene, and we were not able to identify any SNPs in LD with this SNP to confirm the association.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The potential significance of this SNP is, therefore, not clear.
0	pancreatic	NA	NA	RESULTS	We performed a parallel analysis for pancreatic NET cases, where no SNP passed genome-wide significance and no clear risk associations were identified
0	carcinoid tumour	NA	NA	RESULTS	For small intestine NET, we performed a logistic regression comparing 293 small bowel carcinoid cases to the controls for each SNP, adjusting for gender, age (at diagnosis for cases and at blood draw for controls) and the first 10 PCs.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The genomic control lambda was 1.11.
1	NA	NA	rs2192799	RESULTS	Three SNPs in high LD with each other (r2 > 0.97), rs2192799, rs2540513 and rs256182, passed the genome-wide significance threshold (Table 2).
0	NA	ELK3	NA	RESULTS	All three SNPs are located on chromosome 12 within a 200 kb noncoding region between the genes LTAH and ELK3 (Fig.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	2).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Using the 1000 Genome phase 3 CEU data, we looked at all the bi-allelic SNPs within 500 kb of the three SNPs of interest for SNPs that were in LD with the three identified SNPs.
1	NA	NA	rs2192799	RESULTS	Out of a total of 29,307 bi-allelic SNPs in this region, we found 16 SNPs that were in high LD (r2 > 0.8) with our three SNPs, all within a 30 kb region (the following SNPs were identified: rs2192799, rs2540513, rs2660861, rs2660859, rs4762270, rs2660858, rs2660855, rs4762135, rs256189, rs256182, rs2098357, rs42436, rs34576, rs34577, rs34578, rs34579).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	None, however, were on a known gene.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	We further tested correlations between these three SNPs and 14 genes located within one MB using the Genevar database.
0	NA	ELK3	rs256182	RESULTS	This analysis revealed a potential association between one of the SNPs, rs256182, and expression of ELK3, a transcription factor implicated in angiogenesis (correlation 0.255, P = 0.0076), in lymphoblastoid cells
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Genetic risk factors for neuroendocrine tumors remain poorly defined.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Although Mendelian syndromes associated with specific inherited mutations have been associated with the development of neuroendocrine tumors, such mutations account for only a minority of cases and the great majority of neuroendocrine tumors are thought to be sporadic.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The relative rarity of neuroendocrine tumors has been an obstacle to performing large, genome-wide association studies to identify genetic risk factors.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our study, which comprised over 800 cases and over 4500 controls, represents one of the largest such studies performed to date
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We did not identify any risk associations in our cohort overall, nor did we identify risk associations in the subgroup of cases with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The identification of only a single associated SNP in lung neuroendocrine tumors not located in any known gene and without other associated confirming SNPs suggests this finding may be spurious and should be interpreted with caution.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our analysis of the small intestine neuroendocrine tumor subgroup, on the other hand, revealed three associated SNPs, all in strong linkage disequilibrium on chromosome 12q23.
0	NA	ELK3	NA	DISCUSS	These SNPs are not located on any known gene, though they are in close proximity to ELK3 (Net), a gene implicated in transcriptional regulation of angiogenesis.
0	NA	ELK3	NA	DISCUSS	Evaluation of the Genevar database suggested that these SNPs are potentially associated with the expression of ELK3, albeit in a different (lymphoblastoid) cell type.
0	cancers	ELK3	NA	DISCUSS	In mouse studies, ELK3 is expressed at sites of angiogenesis during early development; both phosphorylated ELK3 and VEGF are coexpressed in human tumors.
0	neuroendocrine system	VEGFA	NA	DISCUSS	The finding of a potential association with angiogenesis is particularly intriguing in light of the fact that neuroendocrine tumors are characterized by abundant vasculature, and are responsive to inhibitors of the VEGF pathway.
0	Von Hippel-Lindau disease	VHL	NA	DISCUSS	Von Hippel-Lindau disease, one of the inherited cancer syndromes associated with the development of neuroendocrine tumors, is caused by germline mutations in VHL.
0	NA	VHL	NA	DISCUSS	VHL functions, in part, by regulating the degradation of HIF1A (hypoxia inducible factor 1A), a transcription factor that induces the expression of a number of genes implicated in angiogenesis.
0	hypoxia	EPAS1	NA	DISCUSS	Mutations in EPAS1 (hypoxia inducible factor 2A), a homologous gene transcription factor also implicated in angiogenesis, have been reported in pheochromocytoma.
0	neuroendocrine system	HAL	NA	DISCUSS	The three SNPs identified on chromosome 12q23 are also in proximity to two other genes, LTAH4 and HAL, though whether these genes could be implicated in the development of neuroendocrine tumors is not clear.
0	emphysema	LTA4H	NA	DISCUSS	LTAH4 is a gene encoding leukotriene A4 hydrolase, an amino acid peptidase involved in arachidonic acid metabolism, and has been linked to the development of emphysema.
0	histidinemia	HAL	NA	DISCUSS	HAL encodes histidine ammonia lyase, a gene associated with histidinemia
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The identification of germline risk associations limited to the small intestine subgroup is in some ways not surprising in light of the fact that it has become increasingly apparent that somatic genetic changes in neuroendocrine tumors vary significantly according to neuroendocrine tumor subtype.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Somatic mutations in neuroendocrine tumors are now well characterized and differ significantly depending upon tumor site of origin.
0	neuroendocrine system	MEN1	NA	DISCUSS	In addition to mutations in MEN1, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors have been reported to commonly contain recurrent mutations in two other genes, DAXX and ATRX, both implicated in chromosomal maintenance.
0	NA	mTOR	NA	DISCUSS	Additional mutations in genes implicated in the mTOR pathway, including TSC2 and PTEN, were reported in 15% of cases in this study.
0	NA	YY1	NA	DISCUSS	Recently, recurrent mutations in the transcription factor YY1 (Yin Yang 1), a gene implicated in mitochondrial function and insulin/insulin-like growth factor signaling, were identified in a series of 10 insulinomas.
0	carcinoid tumour	MEN1	NA	DISCUSS	Although mutations in MEN1 have been identified in bronchial carcinoid tumors, mutations in DAXX, ATRX and mTOR pathway genes have not.
0	neuroendocrine system	CDKN1B	NA	DISCUSS	Somatic mutations in small intestine neuroendocrine tumors are quite uncommon; recurrent mutations in CDKN1B (p27) have been reported, but were present in only 8% of cases evaluated using a combination of whole genome and targeted sequencing.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Both familial and sporadic small intestine neuroendocrine tumors have been characterized by deletions and loss of chromosome 18, though a specific gene candidate at this location has not been identified
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our results differ from those of two previous studies evaluating genetic risk factors in neuroendocrine tumors.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The first of these studies, a pilot genome-wide association evaluated potential risk associations in a cohort of 239 small intestine neuroendocrine tumors, including 82 cases from our center, and 110 controls.
0	NA	KIF16B	NA	DISCUSS	This study utilized an earlier Illumina 300K chip and identified potential associations with a variant in the gene KIF16B, a kinesin-like protein located on chromosome 20p12, that approached though did not reach statistical significance.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	This study also identified a potential association between copy number variation in chromosome 18 and the development of small intestine neuroendocrine tumors.
0	NA	KIF16B	NA	DISCUSS	We did not confirm an association with KIF16B in our study, and were not able to evaluate copy number variation in our dataset to assess this potential association.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	A second study, performed at our center, focused on a limited number of SNPs in 355 candidate genes, using a discovery set of 261 cases and 319 controls and a replication set of 235 additional cases and 113 controls.
0	NA	IL12A	NA	DISCUSS	This study reported modest risk associations associated with single SNPS in IL12A and DAD1.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We did not confirm these associations in the current study, which not only included a significantly expanded number of cases, but also utilized a new, larger and independent group of controls
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Though significantly larger than previous studies in neuroendocrine tumors, our study is still smaller than genome-wide association studies reported in other malignancies and is limited in its power to detect associations.
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Additionally, in light of the increasing evidence that neuroendocrine tumors are genetically heterogeneous, genetic predisposing factors likely vary across tumor subtypes.
0	weakness	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Although we attempted to address this potential weakness by performing subgroup analyses, these analyses are based on an even more limited number of cases, resulting in the potential to both miss associations due to the lack of statistical power, as well as the potential to identify spurious associations
0	neuroendocrine system	NA	NA	DISCUSS	In summary, our genome-wide analysis identified a potential genetic risk locus on 12q23 associated with small intestine neuroendocrine tumor risk.
0	NA	ELK3	NA	DISCUSS	This locus is in proximity to ELK3, a transcription factor implicated in angiogenesis.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our results provide a basis for initial exploration of the role of genes associated with this locus, as well as replication studies to confirm the observed associations.
0	pancreatic	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Additional and larger studies to evaluate potential genetic risk factors for sporadic pancreatic and bronchial neuroendocrine tumors are warranted
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Manhattan and QQ plots for the overall risk analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Associations were obtained using logistic regression analysis with adjustment for age, sex and the top 10 principal components of population stratification.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	In the Manhattan plot, the -log10 P values (y axis) of 613,218 SNPs from 832 NET cases and 4783 controls are presented on the basis of their chromosomal positions (x axis).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The red horizontal line indicates the genome-wide significance threshold 5 x 10-8.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	In the QQ plot, the observed -log10 P values (y axis) are compared with the corresponding expected -log10 P values (x axis)
1	NA	NA	rs2540513	FIG	Small intestine NET association plot for +-400 kb region around rs2540513 on chromosome 12.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The -log10 P values (y axis) of the SNPs are presented according to their chromosomal positions (x axis).
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The genetic recombination rates (cM/Mb) estimated using the 1000 Genomes November 2014 EUR samples are shown with a blue line.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Genes within this region were annotated and shown as arrows.
1	NA	NA	rs2540513	FIG	The r2 values of the SNPs with top SNP rs2540513 are indicated by different colors
0	NA	NA	NA	TABLE	Summary characteristics of cases and controls used in the GWAS
0	NA	NA	NA	TABLE	Summary of SNPs associated with risk in small intestine NET
