0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is highly heritable and recent studies have identified over 20 disease-associated genomic loci.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Yet these only explain a small proportion of the genetic variance, indicating that undiscovered loci remain.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Here, we performed a large genome-wide association study of clinically diagnosed AD and AD-by-proxy (71,880 cases, 383,378 controls).
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	AD-by-proxy, based on parental diagnoses, showed strong genetic correlation with AD (rg=0.81).
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Meta-analysis identified 29 risk loci, implicating 215 potential causative genes.
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Associated genes are strongly expressed in immune-related tissues and cell types (spleen, liver and microglia).
0	NA	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	Gene-set analyses indicate biological mechanisms involved in lipid-related processes and degradation of amyloid precursor proteins.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	We show strong genetic correlations with multiple health-related outcomes, and Mendelian randomisation results suggest a protective effect of cognitive ability on AD risk.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	ABSTRACT	These results are a step forward in identifying the genetic factors that contribute to AD risk and add novel insights into the neurobiology of AD
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent neurodegenerative disease with roughly 35 million people affected.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	AD is highly heritable, with estimates ranging between 60 and 80%.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Genetically, AD can be roughly divided into 2 subgroups: 1) familial early-onset cases that are often explained by rare variants with a strong effect, and 2) late-onset cases that are influenced by multiple common variants with low effect sizes.
0	NA	PSEN1	NA	INTRO	Segregation analyses have linked several genes to the first subgroup, including APP, PSEN1 and PSEN2.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	The identification of these genes has resulted in valuable insights into a molecular mechanism with an important role in AD pathogenesis, the amyloidogenic pathway, exemplifying how gene discovery can add to biological understanding of disease etiology
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Besides the identification of a few rare genetic factors (e.g.
1	Alzheimer's disease	TREM2	NA	INTRO	TREM2 and ABCA7), genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have mostly discovered common risk variants for the more complex late-onset type of AD.
1	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	NA	INTRO	APOE is the strongest genetic risk locus for late-onset AD, responsible for a 3- to 15-fold increase in risk.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	A total of 19 additional GWAS loci have been described using a discovery sample of 17,008 AD cases and 37,154 controls, followed by replication of the implicated loci with 8,572 AD patients and 11,312 controls.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	The currently confirmed AD risk loci explain only a fraction of the heritability of AD and increasing the sample size is likely to boost the power for detection of more common risk variants, which will aid in understanding biological mechanisms involved in the risk for AD
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	In the current study, we included 455,258 individuals (Nsum) of European ancestry, meta-analysed in 3 phases (Figure 1).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Phase 1 consisted of 24,087 clinically diagnosed late-onset AD cases, paired with 55,058 controls.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	In phase 2, we analysed an AD-by-proxy phenotype, based on individuals in the UK Biobank (UKB) for whom parental AD status was available (N proxy cases=47,793; N proxy controls=328,320).
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	The value of by-proxy phenotypes for GWAS was recently demonstrated by Liu et al.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	for 12 common diseases, including substantial gains in statistical power for AD.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	The high heritability of AD implies that case status for offspring can be partially inferred from parental case status and that offspring of AD parents are likely to have a higher genetic AD risk load.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	We thus defined individuals with one or two parents with AD as proxy cases, while upweighting cases with 2 parents.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	Similarly, the proxy controls include subjects with 2 parents without AD, where older cognitively normal parents were upweighted to account for the higher likelihood that younger parents may still develop AD (see Methods).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	As the proxy phenotype is not a pure measure of an individual's AD status and may include individuals that never develop AD, genetic effect sizes will be somewhat underestimated.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	INTRO	However, the proxy case-control sample is very large, and therefore substantially increases power to detect genetic effects for AD, as was also demonstrated in a more recent study using UKB.
0	NA	NA	NA	INTRO	Finally, in phase 3, we meta-analysed all individuals of phase 1 and phase 2 together and tested for replication in an independent sample
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Phase 1 involved a genome-wide meta-analysis for clinically-diagnosed AD case-control status using cohorts collected by 3 independent consortia (Alzheimer's disease working group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC-ALZ), the International Genomics of Alzheimer's Project (IGAP), and the Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing Project (ADSP)), totalling 79,145 individuals (Nsum; effective sample size Neff=72,500) of European ancestry and 9,862,738 genetic variants passing quality control (Figure 1, Supplementary Table 1).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The ADSP subset encompassed whole exome sequencing data from 4,343 cases and 3,163 controls, while the remaining datasets consisted of genotype single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) arrays.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	For PGC-ALZ and ADSP, raw genotypic data were subjected to a standardized quality control pipeline.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	GWA analyses were run per cohort and then included in a meta-analysis alongside IGAP, for which only summary statistics were available (see Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	As described in detail in the Supplementary Note, the phase 1 analysis identified 18 independent loci meeting genome-wide significance (GWS; P<5x10-8), all of which have been identified by previous GWASs (Table 1, Supplementary Figure 1, Supplementary Table 2)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	We next (phase 2) performed a GWAS using 376,113 individuals of European ancestry from UKB with parental AD status weighted by age to construct an AD-by-proxy status (Figure 1).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Here, we identified 13 independent GWS loci, 8 of which overlapped with phase 1 (Table 1, Supplementary Note).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	We observed a strong genetic correlation of 0.81 (s.e.m=0.185) between AD status and AD-by-proxy, as well as substantial concordance in the individual SNP effects, as described in the Supplementary Note
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Given the high genetic overlap, in phase 3 we conducted a meta-analysis of the clinical AD GWAS and the AD-by-proxy GWAS (Figure 1), comprising a total sample size of 455,258 (Neff=450,734), including 71,880 (proxy) cases and 383,378 (proxy) controls.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	The linkage disequilibrium (LD) score intercept was 1.0018 (s.e.m=0.0109) and the sample size-adjusted lambda1000 was 1.044, indicating that most of the inflation in genetic signal (lambdaGC=1.0833) could be explained by polygenicity (Supplementary Figure 1B).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	There were 2,357 GWS variants, which were represented by 94 lead SNPs, located in 29 distinct loci (Table 1, Figure 2, Supplementary Figure 2).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	These included 15 of the 18 loci detected in Phase 1, all of the 13 detected in Phase 2, as well as 9 loci that were sub-threshold in both individual analyses but reached significance in the meta-analysis.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	A large proportion of the lead SNPs (60 of 94) was concentrated in the established APOE risk locus on chromosome 19.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	This region is known to have a complex LD structure and a very strong effect on AD risk; thus, we consider these SNPs likely to represent a single association signal.
1	NA	TREM2	NA	RESULTS	Conditional analysis indicated that most loci represented a single fully independent signal, while the TREM2, PTK2B/CLU, and APOE loci contained multiple possible causal signals (Supplementary Note; Supplementary Tables 3-4)
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Of the 29 associated loci, 16 overlapped 1 of the 20 genomic regions previously identified by the GWAS of Lambert et al., replicating their findings, while 13 were novel.
1	NA	CR1	NA	RESULTS	The association signals of five loci (CR1, ZCWPW1, CLU/PTK2B, MS4A6a and APH1B) are partly based on the ADSP exome-sequencing data.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Re-analysis of these loci excluding ADSP resulted in similar association signals (Supplementary Table 5), implying that we have correctly adjusted for partial sample overlap between IGAP and ADSP.
1	NA	HESX1	NA	RESULTS	The lead SNPs in three loci (with nearest genes HESX1, TREM2 and CNTNAP2) were only available in the UKB cohort (Table 1), but were of good quality (INFO>0.91, HWE P>0.19, missingness<0.003).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	These SNPs were all rare (minor allele frequency (MAF) <0.003), meaning that they will require future confirmation in another similarly large sample.
1	Alzheimer's disease	TREM2	NA	RESULTS	However, variants in TREM2 have been robustly linked to AD in prior research
1	Alzheimer's disease	TREM2	NA	RESULTS	Verifying the 13 novel loci against other recent genetic studies on AD, 4 loci (TREM2, ECHDC3, SCIMP and ABI3) have been previously discovered in addition to the 16 identified by Lambert et al., leaving 9 novel loci at the time of this writing (ADAMTS4, HESX1, CLNK, CNTNAP2, ADAM10, APH1B, KAT8, ALPK2, AC074212.3).
1	NA	ADAMTS4	NA	RESULTS	The ADAMTS4 and KAT8 loci have also since been identified in a recent analysis in a partially overlapping sample.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Comparing our meta-analysis results with all loci of Lambert et al.
0	NA	MEF2C	NA	RESULTS	to determine differences in associated loci, we were unable to observe 4 loci (MEF2C, NME8, CELF1 and FERMT2) at a GWS level (observed P-values were 1.6x10-5 to 0.0011), which was mostly caused by a lower association signal in the UKB dataset (Supplementary Table 6).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	By contrast, Lambert et al.
1	NA	DSG2	NA	RESULTS	were unable to replicate the DSG2 and CD33 loci in the second stage of their study.
1	Alzheimer's disease	DSG2	rs3865444	RESULTS	In our study, DSG2 was also not supported (meta-analysis P=0.030; UKB analysis P=0.766), implying invalidation of this locus, while the CD33 locus (rs3865444 in Table 1) was significantly associated with AD (meta-analysis P=6.34x10-9; UKB analysis P=4.97x10-5), implying a genuine genetic association with AD risk
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Next, we aimed to find further support for the novel findings by using an independent Icelandic cohort (deCODE), including 6,593 AD cases and 174,289 controls (Figure 1; Supplementary Table 7) to test replication of the lead SNP or an LD-proxy of the lead SNP (r2>0.9) in each locus.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	We were unable to test two loci as the lead SNPs (and SNPs in high LD) either were not present in the Icelandic reference panel or were not imputed with sufficient quality.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	For 6 of the 7 novel loci tested for replication, we observed the same direction of effect in the deCODE cohort.
1	NA	CLNK	NA	RESULTS	Furthermore, 4 loci (CLNK, ADAM10, APH1B, AC074212.3) showed nominally significant association results (P<0.05) for the same SNP or a SNP in high LD (r2>0.9) within the same locus (two-tailed binomial test P=1.9x10-4).
1	NA	ADAMTS4	NA	RESULTS	The locus on chromosome 1 (ADAMTS4) was very close to significance (P=0.053), implying stronger evidence for replication than for non-replication.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Apart from the novel loci, we also observed sign concordance for 96.3% of the top (per-locus) lead SNPs in all loci from the meta-analysis (two-tailed binomial test P=4.17x10-7) that were available in deCODE (26 of 27)
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	As an additional method of testing for replication, we used genome-wide polygenic score prediction in two independent samples.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	The current results explain 7.1% of the variance in clinical AD at a low best fitting P-threshold of 1.69x10-5 in 761 individuals with case-control diagnoses (P=1.80x10-10).
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	When excluding the APOE locus (chr19: 45020859-45844508), the results explain 3.9% of the variance with a best fitting P-threshold of 3.5x10-5 (P=1.90x10-6).
1	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	We also predict AD status in a sample of 1,459 pathologically confirmed cases and controls with an R2=0.41 and an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.827 (95% confidence interval (95% CI): 0.805-0.849, P=9.71x10-70) using the best-fitting model of SNPs with a GWAS P<0.50, as well as R2=0.23 and AUC=0.733 (95% CI: 0.706-0.758, P=1.16x10-45) using only APOE SNPs.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	This validation sample contains a small number of individuals overlapping with IGAP; previous simulations with this sample have indicated that this overfitting increases the margin of error of the estimate approximately 2-3%.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	This sample, however, represented severe, late-stage AD cases contrasted with supernormal controls, so the polygenic prediction may be higher than expected for typical case-control or population samples
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Functional annotation of all GWS SNPs (n=2,357) in the associated loci showed that SNPs were mostly located in intronic/intergenic areas, but also in regions that were enriched for chromatin states 4 and 5, implying effects on active transcription (Figure 3; Supplementary Table 8).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Twenty-five GWS SNPs were exonic non-synonymous (Figure 3A; Supplementary Table 9) with likely deleterious impacts on gene function.
1	NA	TREM2	R47H	RESULTS	Converging evidence of strong association (Z> 7 ) and a high observed probability of a deleterious variant effect (CADD score>=30) was found for rs75932628 (TREM2), rs142412517 (TOMM40) and rs7412 (APOE).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	The first two missense mutations are rare (MAF=0.002 and 0.001, respectively) and the alternative alleles were associated with higher risk for AD.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	The latter APOE missense mutation is the well-established protective allele Apoepsilon2.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Supplementary Tables 8 and 9 present a detailed annotation catalogue of variants in the associated genomic loci.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	We also applied a fine-mapping model to identify credible sets of causal SNPs from the identified GWS variants (Supplementary Table 8).
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	The proportion of plausible causal SNPs varied drastically between loci; for example, 30 out of 854 SNPs were selected in the APOE locus (no.
0	NA	HLA	NA	RESULTS	26), while 345 out of 434 SNPs were nominated in the HLA-DRB1 locus (no.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	7).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Credible causal SNPs were not limited to known functional categories such as ExNS, indicating more complicated causal pathways that merit investigation with the set of variants prioritized by these statistical and functional annotations
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	Partitioned heritability analysis, excluding SNPs with extremely large effect sizes (that is, APOE variants) showed enrichment for the SNP-heritability (h2SNP) for variants located in H3K27ac marks (enrichment=3.18, P=9.63x10-5), which are associated with activation of transcription, and in super enhancers (enrichment=3.62, P=2.28x10-4), which are genomic regions where multiple epigenetic marks of active transcription are clustered (Figure 3D; Supplementary Table 10).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Heritability was also enriched in variants on chromosome 17 (enrichment=3.61, P=1.63x10-4) and we observed a trend of enrichment for heritability in common rather than rarer variants (Supplementary Figure 3; Supplementary Tables 11 and 12).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Although a large proportion (23.9%) of the heritability can be explained by SNPs on chromosome 19, this enrichment is not significant, due to the large standard errors around this estimate (Supplementary Table 11).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Overall these results suggest that, despite some nonsynonymous variants contributing to AD risk, most of the GWS SNPs are located in non-coding regions and are enriched for regions that have an activating effect on transcription
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	To link the associated variants to genes, we applied three gene-mapping strategies implemented in Functional Mapping and Annotation (FUMA) (see Methods).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	We used all SNPs with a P-value<5x10-8 for gene-mapping.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Positional gene-mapping aligned SNPs to 99 genes by their location within or immediately up/downstream (+-10 kilobases (kb)) of known gene boundaries, eQTL (expression quantitative trait loci) gene-mapping matched cis-eQTL SNPs to 168 genes whose expression levels they influence in one or more tissues, and chromatin interaction mapping linked SNPs to 21 genes based on three-dimensional DNA-DNA interactions between each SNP's genomic region and nearby or distant genes, which we limited to include only interactions between annotated enhancer and promoter regions (Supplementary Figure 4; Supplementary Tables 13 and 14).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	This resulted in 192 uniquely mapped genes, 80 of which were implicated by at least two mapping strategies and 16 by all 3 (Figure 4E)
1	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Of special interest is the locus on chromosome 8 (CLU/PTK2B).
1	NA	CLU	NA	RESULTS	In the GWAS by Lambert et al., this locus was defined as 2 distinct loci (CLU and PTK2B).
1	Alzheimer's disease	PTK2B	NA	RESULTS	Although our conditional analysis based on genetic data also specified this locus as having at least 2 independent association signals (Supplementary Table 4), the chromatin interaction data in two immune-related tissues - the spleen and liver (Supplementary Table 14) - suggests that the genomic regions indexed by PTK2B and CLU loci might physically interact (Figure 3E), therefore putatively affecting AD pathogenesis via the same biological mechanism.
1	NA	CLU	NA	RESULTS	The patterns of tissue-specific gene expression are largely dissimilar between CLU and PTK2B, although both are expressed relatively highly in the brain and lymph nodes.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Future studies should thus consider the joint effects of how these two genes simultaneously impact AD risk
1	Alzheimer's disease	HLA-DRB5	NA	RESULTS	Eight genes (HLA-DRB5, HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQA, HLA-DQB1, KAT8, PRSS36, ZNF232 and CEACAM19) are particularly notable as they are implicated via eQTL association in the hippocampus, a brain region highly affected early in AD pathogenesis (Supplementary Table 13).
1	NA	C16orf93	rs59735493	RESULTS	Chromosome 16 contains a locus implicated by long-range eQTL association (Figure 3F), clearly illustrating how the more distant genes C16orf93, RNF40 and ITGAX can be affected by a genetic factor (rs59735493) in various body tissues (for example, blood and skin), including a change in expression for RNF40 observed in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	These observations emphasize the relevance of considering putative causal genes or regulatory elements not solely on the physical location but also on epigenetic influences.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	As detailed in the Supplementary Note, eQTLs were overrepresented in the risk loci and a number of quantitative trait locus (QTL) associations (including eQTLs, methylation quantitative trait loci (mQTLs), and histone acetylation quantitative trait loci (haQTLs)) were identified in relevant brain regions, providing interesting targets for future functional follow-up and biological interpretation (Supplementary Tables 15-17)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Although these gene-mapping strategies imply multiple putative causal genes per GWAS locus, several genes are of particular interest, as they have functional or previous genetic association with AD.
1	Alzheimer's disease	ADAMTS4	NA	RESULTS	For locus 1 in Supplementary Table 13, ADAMTS4 encodes a protein of the ADAMTS family which has a function in neuroplasticity and has been extensively studied for its role in AD pathogenesis.
1	Alzheimer's disease	ADAM10	NA	RESULTS	For locus 19, the obvious most likely causal gene is ADAM10, as this gene has been associated with AD by research focusing on rare coding variants in ADAM10.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	However, this is the first time that this gene is implicated as a common risk factor for AD, and is supported by the putative causal molecular mechanism observed in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex eQTL and mQTL data (Supplementary Tables 15 and 16) for multiple common SNPs in LD.
1	NA	APH1B	NA	RESULTS	The lead SNP for locus 20 is a nonsynonymous variant in exon 1 of APH1B, which encodes for a protein subunit of the gamma-secretase complex cleaving APP.
1	NA	KAT8	NA	RESULTS	A highly promising candidate gene for locus 21 is KAT8, as the lead SNP of this locus is located within the third intron of KAT8, and multiple significant variants within this locus influence the expression or methylation levels of KAT8 in multiple brain regions (Supplementary Tables 13 and 16) including hippocampus.
1	Alzheimer's disease	KAT8	NA	RESULTS	The chromatin modifier KAT8 is regulated by KANSL1, a gene associated with AD in absence of Apoe4.
1	Parkinson's disease	KAT8	NA	RESULTS	A study on Parkinson's disease reported KAT8 as potential causal gene based on GWAS and differential gene expression results, implying a putative shared role in neurodegeneration of KAT8 in AD and Parkinson's disease.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Although previously reported functional information on genes can be of great value, it is preferable to consider all implicated genes as putative causal factors to guide potential functional follow-up experiments
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	We next performed genome-wide gene-based association analysis (GWGAS) using Multi-marker Analysis of GenoMic Annotation (MAGMA).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	This method annotates SNPs to known protein-coding genes to estimate aggregate associations based on all SNPs in a gene.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	It differs from FUMA as it provides a statistical gene-based test, whereas FUMA maps individually significant SNPs to genes.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	With GWGAS, we identified 97 genes that were significantly associated with AD (Supplementary Figure 5; Supplementary Table 18), of which 74 were also mapped by FUMA (Figure 4E).
1	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	In total, 16 genes were implicated by all four strategies (Supplementary Table 19), of which 7 genes (HLA-DRA, HLA-DRB1, PTK2B, CLU, MS4A3, SCIMP and RABEP1) are not located in the APOE-locus, and therefore of high interest for further investigation
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Using the gene-based P-values, we performed gene-set analysis for curated biological pathways and tissue/single-cell expression.
0	Alzheimer's disease	beta-amyloid (Abeta)	NA	RESULTS	Four Gene Ontology (GO) gene-sets were significantly associated with AD risk: Protein lipid complex (P=3.93x10-10), Regulation of amyloid precursor protein catabolic process (P=8.16x10-9), High density lipoprotein particle (P=7.81x10-8), and Protein lipid complex assembly (P=7.96x10-7) (Figure 4A; Supplementary Tables 20 and 21).
1	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	Conditional analysis on the APOE locus showed associations with AD for these four gene-sets to be independent of the effect of APOE, though part of the association signal was also attributable to APOE.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	All 25 genes of the High density lipoprotein particle pathway are also part of the Protein lipid complex; conditional analysis showed that these gene-sets are not interpretable as independent associations (P=0.18), but the other three sets are independently significant (Supplementary Table 20)
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	Linking gene-based P-values to tissue- and cell-type-specific gene-sets, no association survived the stringent Bonferroni correction, which corrected for all tested gene-sets (that is, 6,994 GO categories, 53 tissues and 39 cell types).
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	However, we did observe suggestive associations across immune-related tissues when correcting only for the number of tests within all tissue types or cell-types (Figure 4C; Supplementary Table 22), particularly whole blood (P=5.61x10-6), spleen (P=1.50x10-5) and lung (P=4.67x10-4), which were independent from the APOE locus.
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	In brain single-cell expression gene-set analyses, we found association for microglia in the mouse-based expression dataset (P=1.96x10-3), though not surviving the stringent Bonferroni correction (Figure 4B; Supplementary Table 23).
0	NA	NA	NA	RESULTS	However, we observed a similar association signal for microglia in a second independent single-cell expression dataset in humans (P=2.56x10-3) (Supplementary Figure 6; Supplementary Table 24).
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	RESULTS	As anticipated, both microglia signals are partly depending on APOE, though a large part is independent (Supplementary Tables 23 and 24)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	As described in the Supplementary Note and Supplementary Tables 25-26, we observed that the genetic influences on AD overlapped with a number of other diseases and psychological traits including cognitive ability and educational attainment, replicating previous studies.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	To extend these findings, we used Generalised Summary-statistic-based Mendelian Randomisation (GSMR) to test for potential credible causal associations of genetically correlated outcomes which may directly influence the risk for AD.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Due to the nature of AD being a late-onset disorder and summary statistics for most other traits being obtained from younger samples, we do not report tests for the opposite direction of potential causality (that is, we did not test for a causal effect of a late-onset disease on an early-onset disease).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	"In this set of analyses, SNPs from the summary statistics of genetically correlated phenotypes were used as instrumental variables to estimate the putative causal effect of these ""exposure"" phenotypes on AD risk by comparing the ratio of SNPs' associations with each exposure to their associations with AD outcome (see Methods)."
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	Association statistics were standardized, such that the reported effects reflect the expected difference in odds ratio (OR) for AD as a function of every SD increase in the exposure phenotype.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	We observed a protective effect of cognitive ability (OR=0.89, 95% CI: 0.85-0.92, P=5.07x10-9), educational attainment (OR=0.88, 95%CI: 0.81-0.94, P=3.94x10-4), and height (OR=0.96, 95%CI: 0.94-0.97, P=1.84x10-8) on risk for AD (Supplementary Table 27; Supplementary Figure 7).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	RESULTS	No substantial evidence of pleiotropy was observed between AD and these phenotypes, with <1% of overlapping SNPs being filtered as outliers (Supplementary Table 27)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	By using an unconventional approach of including a proxy phenotype for AD to increase sample size, we have identified nine novel loci and gained novel biological knowledge on AD etiology.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We were able to test seven of the nine novel loci for replication, of which four loci showed clear replication, one locus showed marginal replication and two loci were not replicated at this moment.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Both the high genetic correlation between the standard case-control status and the UKB by proxy phenotype (rg=0.81) and the high rate of novel loci replication in the independent deCODE cohort suggest that this strategy is robust.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Through in silico functional follow-up analysis, and in line with previous research, we emphasise the crucial causal role of the immune system - rather than immune response as a consequence of disease pathology - by establishing variant enrichments for immune-related body tissues (whole blood, spleen, liver) and for the main immune cells of the brain (microglia).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Of note, the enrichment observed for liver could alternatively indicate the genetic involvement of the lipid system in AD pathogenesis.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Furthermore, we observe informative eQTL associations and chromatin interactions within immune-related tissues for the identified genomic risk loci.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Together with the AD-associated genetic effects on lipid metabolism in our study, these biological implications (which are based on genetic signals and unbiased by prior biological beliefs) strengthen the hypothesis that AD pathogenesis involves an interplay between inflammation and lipids, as lipid changes might harm immune responses of microglia and astrocytes, and vascular health of the brain
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	In accordance with previous clinical research, our study suggests an important role for protective effects of several human traits on AD.
0	brain damage	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Cognitive reserve has been proposed as a protective mechanism in which the brain aims to control brain damage with prior existing cognitive processing strategies.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Our findings imply that some component of the genetic factors for AD might affect cognitive reserve, rather than being involved in AD-pathology-related damaging processes, influencing AD pathogenesis in an indirect way through cognitive reserve.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Furthermore, a large-scale community-based study observed that AD incidence rates declined over decades, which was specific for individuals with at minimum a high school diploma.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Combined with our Mendelian randomisation results for educational attainment, this suggests that the protective effect of educational attainment on AD is influenced by genetics.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	Similarly, the observed positive effects of height could be a result of the genetic overlap between height and intracranial volume, a measure associated to decreased risk of AD.
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	This indirect association is furthermore supported by the observed increase in cognitive reserve for taller individuals.
0	Alzheimer's disease	IGF-I	NA	DISCUSS	Alternatively, genetic variants influencing height might also affect biological mechanisms involved in AD aetiology, such as IGF1 that codes for the insulin-like growth factor and is associated with cerebral amyloid
0	NA	NA	NA	DISCUSS	The results of this study could furthermore serve as a valuable resource for selection of promising genes for functional follow-up experiments and identify targets for drug development and stratification approaches.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	DISCUSS	We anticipate that functional interpretation strategies and follow-up experiments will result in a comprehensive understanding of late-onset AD aetiology, which will serve as a solid foundation for improvement of AD therapy
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	Participants in this study were obtained from multiple sources, including raw data from case-control samples collected by the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC-ALZ) and the Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing Project (ADSP; made publicly available through dbGaP [see URLs]), summary data from the case-control samples in the International Genomics of Alzheimer's Project (IGAP), and raw data from the population-based UK Biobank (UKB) sample which was used to create a weighted AD-proxy phenotype.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	An additional independent case-control sample (deCODE) was used for replication.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Full descriptions of the samples and their respective phenotyping and genotyping procedures are provided in the Supplementary Note and the Life Sciences Reporting Summary
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	Genome-wide association analysis (GWAS) for each of the ADSP, PGC-ALZ and UKB datasets was performed in PLINK, using logistic regression for dichotomous phenotypes (cases versus controls for ADSP and PGC-ALZ cohorts), and linear regression for phenotypes analysed as continuous outcomes (proxy phenotype constructed as the number of parents with AD for UKB cohort).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For the ADSP and PGC-ALZ cohorts, association tests were adjusted for gender, batch (if applicable), and the first 4 ancestry principal components.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Twenty principal components were calculated, and depending on the dataset being tested, additional principal components (on top of the standard of 4) were added if significantly associated to the phenotype.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Furthermore, for the PGC-ALZ cohorts age was included as a covariate.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For 4,537 controls of the DemGene cohort (subset of PGC-ALZ), no detailed age information was available, besides the age range the subjects were in (20-45 years).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We therefore set the age of these individuals conservatively to 20 years.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For the ADSP dataset, age was not included as a covariate due to the enrichment for older controls (mean age cases = 73.1 years (s.e.m.=7.8); mean age controls = 86.1 years (s.e.m.=4.5)) in their collection procedures.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Correcting for age in ADSP would remove a substantial part of genuine association signals (e.g.
1	Alzheimer's disease	apolipoprotein E	rs11556505	METHODS	well-established APOE locus rs11556505 is strongly associated to AD (P=1.08x10-99), which is lost when correcting for age (P=0.0054).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For the UKB dataset, 12 ancestry principal components were included as covariates, as well as age, sex, genotyping array, and assessment centre.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used the genome-wide threshold for significance of P<5x10-8)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Two meta-analyses were performed, including: phase 1) cohorts with case-control phenotypes (IGAP, ADSP and PGC-ALZ datasets), and phase 3) all cohorts, also including the UKB proxy phenotype
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Because of partial overlap between cohorts, the per SNP test statistics was defined by  where wi and Zi are the squared root of the sample size and the test statistics of SNP k in cohort i, respectively.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	CTI is the cross-trait LD score intercept estimated by LDSC using genome-wide summary statistics.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This is equal to  where Ni and Nj are the sample sizes of cohorts i and j and Nsij the number of samples overlapping between them, and rhoij the phenotypic correlation between the measures used in the two cohorts for the overlapping samples.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Under the null hypothesis of no association any correlation between Zi and Zj is determined only by that phenotypic correlation, scaled by the relative degree of overlap.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	As such, this correlation can be estimated by the CTI
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The test statistics per SNP per GWAS were converted from the P-value, incorporating the sign of either beta or odds ratio.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	When direction is aligned the conversion is two-sided.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To avoid infinite values, we replaced P-value 1 with 0.999999 and P-value < 1e-323 to 1e-323 (the minimum >0 value in Python).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The script for the multivariate GWAS is available online (see URLs)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The effective sample size (Neff) is computed for each SNP k from the matrix M, containing the sample size Ni of each cohort i on the diagonal and the estimated number of shared data points  for each pair of cohorts i and j as the off-diagonal values.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A recursive approach is used to compute Neff.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Going from the first cohort to the last the (remaining) size of the current cohort is added to the total Neff.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Then for each remaining other cohort it overlaps with, the size of those other cohorts is reduced by the expected number of samples shared by the current cohort; overlap between the remaining cohorts is similarly adjusted.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This process ensures that each overlapping data point is counted only once in Neff
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The computation proceeds as follows.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Starting with the first cohort in M, Neff is first increased by M1,1, corresponding to the sample size of that cohort.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The proportion of samples shared between cohort 1 and each other cohort j is then computed as p1,j = M1,j/Mj,j, and M is adjusted to remove this overlap, multiplying all values in each column j by 1-p1,j.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This amounts to reducing the sample size of each other cohort j by the number of samples it shares with cohort 1 and reducing the shared samples between cohort j and subsequent cohorts by the same proportion.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	After this, the first row and column of M are discarded, and the same process is applied to the new M matrix.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This is repeated until M is empty
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	"The effective sample size is used as a parameter in the MAGMA analysis (see Methods ""Gene based-analysis"") and reported in the main text as the combined sample sizes for the meta-analysis."
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We use the term Nsum to indicate the total number of individuals when simply summing them over the distinct cohorts.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The script for the Neff computation is available online (see URLs)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used FUMA v1.2.8, an online platform for functional mapping and annotation of genetic variants, to define genomic risk loci and obtain functional information of relevant SNPs in these loci.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We first identified independent significant SNPs that have a genome-wide significant P-value (<5x10-8) and are independent from each other at r2<0.6.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These SNPs were further represented by lead SNPs, which are a subset of the independent significant SNPs that are in approximate linkage equilibrium with each other at r2>0.6.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We then defined associated genomic risk loci by merging any physically overlapping lead SNPs (LD blocks <250kb apart).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	LD information was calculated using the UK Biobank genotype data as a reference
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For GWS SNPs in the defined risk loci, we applied a summary statistic-based fine-mapping model to identify credible causal SNPs within each locus, as previously described.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This Bayesian model estimates a per-SNP posterior probability of a true disease association using maximum likelihood estimation and the steepest descent approach, creating a set of SNPs in each locus that contains the causal SNP in 99% of cases, given that the causal variants are among the genotyped/imputed SNPs.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The software used, FM-summary, is available online (see URLs)
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	For novel SNPs identified in the phase 3 meta-analysis, replication was tested in the independent deCODE sample using logistic regression with Alzheimer's disease status as the response and genotype counts and a set of nuisance variables including sex, county of birth, and current age as predictors.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Correction for inflation of test statistics due to relatedness and population stratification in this Icelandic cohort was performed using the intercept estimate (1.29) from LD score regression
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We performed conditional analysis with GCTA-COJO to assess the independence of association signals, either within or between GWAS risk loci.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	COJO enables conditional analysis of GWAS summary statistics without individual-level genotype data.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We therefore performed conditional analysis on the phase 3 summary statistics, using 10,000 randomly selected unrelated samples from the UKB dataset as a reference dataset to determine LD-patterns.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Conditional analysis was run per chromosome or per locus with the default settings of the software
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	LD score regression was used to estimate clinical AD heritability and to calculate genetic correlations between the case-control and proxy phenotypes using summary statistics.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Pre-calculated LD scores from the 1000 Genomes European reference population were obtained online (see URLs).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Liability heritability was calculated with a population prevalence of 0.0431 (the population prevalence of age group 70-75 in the Western European population, resembling the average age of onset of 74.5 for the clinical case group) and a sample prevalence of 0.304.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The genetic correlation was calculated on HapMap3 SNPs only to ensure high quality LD score calculation
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To test whether specific categories of SNP annotations were enriched for heritability, we partitioned the SNP heritability for binary annotations using stratified LD score regression.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Heritability enrichment was calculated as the proportion of heritability explained by a SNP category divided by the proportion of SNPs that are in that category.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Partitioned heritability was computed by 28 functional annotation categories, by minor allele frequency (MAF) in six percentile bins, and by 22 chromosomes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Annotations for binary categories of functional genomic characteristics (for example, coding or regulatory regions) were obtained online (see URLs).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The Bonferroni-corrected significance threshold for 56 annotations was set at: P<0.05/56=8.93x10-4
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We calculated polygenic scores (PGS) using two independent genotype datasets.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	First, 761 individuals (379 cases and 382 controls) from the ADDNeuroMed study were included, using the same QC and imputation approach as for the other datasets with genotype-level data (see Supplementary Note).
0	cognitive defects	NA	NA	METHODS	Second, 1459 individuals (912 severe, late-stage cases and 547 age-matched controls with little to no cognitive dysfunction) from the TGEN study were assessed and their diagnostic status was confirmed via post-mortem neuropathology.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Imputed SNPs in this sample were filtered based on INFO score>0.9 and MAF>0.01.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	PGS were created using PLINK for the TGEN dataset and PRSice for the ADDNeuroMed dataset.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In both samples, PGS were calculated on hard-called imputed genotypes using P-value thresholds from 0.0 to 0.5 and using PLINK's clumping procedure to prune for LD.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Clumping was based on the effect size estimates of SNPs originating from the phase 3 meta-analysis for the ADDNeuroMed sample.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For TGEN, clumping was previously performed using the IGAP summary statistics; these clumped SNPs were filtered for overlap with the phase 3 SNPs.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	PGS were calculated in both samples using the SNP effect size estimates from the phase 3 meta-analysis.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	The explained variance (DeltaR2) was derived from a linear model in which the AD phenotype was regressed on each PGS while controlling for GWAS covariates, compared to a linear model with covariates only.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	In the TGEN dataset, sensitivity, specificity, and area under the curve (AUC) of predicting confirmed case/control status were calculated, using the R package pROC and bootstrapped confidence intervals.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Of note, approximately 3% of the TGEN sample overlapped with the IGAP cohort included in the meta-analysis; previous simulation work using PGS in this sample has shown that this overfitting leads to only a modest increase (2-3%) in the margin of error around the AUC estimate
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Functional annotation of GWS SNPs implicated in the meta-analysis was performed using FUMA v1.2.8.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Functional consequences for these SNPs were obtained by matching SNPs to databases containing known functional annotations, including ANNOVAR categories, Combined Annotation Dependent Depletion (CADD) scores, RegulomeDB (RDB) scores, and chromatin states.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	ANNOVAR annotates the functional consequence of SNPs on genes (for example, intron, exon, intergenic).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	CADD scores predict how deleterious the effect of a SNP with higher scores referring to higher deleteriousness.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A CADD score above 12.37 is the threshold to be potentially pathogenic.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The RegulomeDB score is a categorical score based on information from expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) and chromatin marks, ranging from 1a to 7 with lower scores indicating an increased likelihood of having a regulatory function.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The chromatin state represents the accessibility of genomic regions (every 200bp) with 15 categorical states predicted by a hidden Markov model based on 5 chromatin marks in the Roadmap Epigenomics Project.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A lower state indicates higher accessibility, with states 1-7 referring to open chromatin states.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We annotated the minimum chromatin state across tissues to SNPs.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A legend describing the RegulomeDB and chromatin state scores can be found in the Supplementary Note
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Positional mapping maps SNPs to genes based on physical distance (within a 10kb window) from known protein coding genes in the human reference assembly (GRCh37/hg19)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	eQTL mapping maps SNPs to genes with which they show a significant eQTL association (i.e.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	allelic variation at the SNP is associated with the expression level of that gene).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	eQTL mapping uses information from 45 tissue types in 3 data repositories (GTEx v6, Blood eQTL browser, BIOS QTL browser), and is based on cis-eQTLs which can map SNPs to genes up to 1Mb apart.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used a false discovery rate (FDR) of 0.05 to define significant eQTL associations
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Chromatin interaction mapping was performed to map SNPs to genes when there is a three-dimensional DNA-DNA interaction between the SNP region and another gene region.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Chromatin interaction mapping can involve long-range interactions as it does not have a distance boundary.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	FUMA currently contains Hi-C data of 14 tissue types from the study of Schmitt et al.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Since chromatin interactions are often defined in a certain resolution, such as 40kb, an interacting region can span multiple genes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	If a SNP is located in a region that interacts with a region containing multiple genes, it will be mapped to each of those genes.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To further prioritize candidate genes, we selected only genes mapped by chromatin interaction in which one region involved in the interaction overlaps with a predicted enhancer region in any of the 111 tissue/cell types from the Roadmap Epigenomics Project and the other region is located in a gene promoter region (250bp up- and 500bp downstream of the transcription start site and also predicted by Roadmap to be a promoter region).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This method reduces the number of genes mapped but increases the likelihood that those identified will have a plausible biological function.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used an false discovery rate of 1x10-5 to define significant interactions, based on previous recommendations modified to account for the differences in cell lines used here
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Genome-wide significant loci obtained by GWAS were mapped to genes in FUMA using three strategies:
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	As AD is characterized by neurodegeneration, we annotated the significant genomic loci with publicly available databases of expression, methylation, and histone acetylation QTLs, as catalogued in BRAINEAC, CommonMind Consortium Portal and xQTL Serve, as an extension of the GTEx tissue eQTL mapping performed in FUMA.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Descriptions of these brain eQTL databases and settings we used are in the Supplementary Note
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	To account for the distinct types of genetic data in this study, genotype array (PGC-ALZ, IGAP, UKB) and whole-exome sequencing data (ADSP), we first performed two gene-based genome-wide association analysis (GWGASs) using MAGMA, followed by a meta-analysis.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	SNP-based P-values from the meta-analysis of the 3 genotype-array-based datasets were used as input for the first GWGAS, while the unimputed individual-level sequence data of ADSP was used as input for the second GWGAS.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	A total of 18,233 protein-coding genes (each containing at least one SNP in the GWAS) from the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) 37.3 gene definitions were used as basis for GWGAS in MAGMA.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Bonferroni correction was applied to correct for multiple testing (P<2.74x10-6)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	1.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	6,994 curated gene-sets representing known biological and metabolic pathways derived from Gene Ontology (5917 gene-sets), Biocarta (217 gene-sets), KEGG (186 gene-sets), Reactome (674 gene-sets) catalogued by and obtained from the MsigDB version 6.1 (see URLs
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Gene expression values from 53 tissues obtained from GTEx, log2 transformed with pseudocount 1 after winsorization at 50 and averaged per tissue
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Cell-type specific expression in 24 broad categories of brain cell types, which were calculated following the method described in ref..
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Briefly, brain cell-type expression data was drawn from single-cell RNA sequencing data from mouse brains.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For each gene, the value for each cell-type was calculated by dividing the mean Unique Molecular Identifier (UMI) counts for the given cell type by the summed mean UMI counts across all cell types.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Single-cell gene-sets were derived by grouping genes into 40 equal bins based on specificity of expression
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Nucleus specific gene expression of 15 distinct human brain cell-types from the study described in.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The value for each cell-type was calculated as in point 3
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Results from the GWGAS analyses were used to test for association in 7,086 predefined gene-sets of four categories:
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	These gene-sets were tested using MAGMA.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We computed competitive P-values, which represent the test of association for a specific gene-set compared with genes not in the gene-set to correct for baseline level of genetic association in the data.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The Bonferroni-corrected significance threshold was 0.05/7,087 gene-sets=7.06x10-6.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The suggestive significance threshold was defined by the number of tests within the category.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	METHODS	Conditional analyses were performed as a follow-up using MAGMA to test whether each significant association observed was independent of APOE (a gene-set including all genes within region chr19:45,020,859-45,844,508).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Furthermore, the association between each of the significant gene-sets was tested conditional on each of the other significantly associated gene-sets.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Gene-sets that retained their association after correcting for other sets were considered to represent independent signals.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We note that this is not a test of association per se, but rather a strategy to identify, among gene-sets with known significant associations and overlap in genes, which set(s) are responsible for driving the observed association
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	Genetic correlations (rg) between AD and 41 phenotypes were computed using LD score regression, based on GWAS summary statistics obtained from publicly available databases (see URLs and Supplementary Table 26).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The Bonferroni-corrected significance threshold was 0.05/41 traits=1.22x10-3
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	To infer credible causal associations between AD and traits that are genetically correlated with AD, we performed Generalised Summary-data based Mendelian Randomisation (GSMR; see URLs).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This method utilizes summary-level data to test for putative causal associations between a risk factor (exposure) and an outcome by using independent genome-wide significant SNPs as instrumental variables as an index of the exposure.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	HEIDI-outlier detection was used to filter genetic instruments that showed clear pleiotropic effects on the exposure phenotype and the outcome phenotype.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	We used a threshold p-value of 0.01 for the outlier detection analysis in HEIDI, which removes 1% of SNPs by chance if there is no pleiotropic effect.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	To test for a potential causal effect of various outcomes on risk for AD, we selected phenotypes in non-overlapping samples that showed (suggestive) significant (P<0.05) genetic correlations (rg) with AD.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	METHODS	With this method it is typical to test for bi-directional causation by repeating the analyses while switching the role of the exposure and the outcome; however, because AD is a late-onset disease, it makes little sense to estimate its causal effect on outcomes that develop earlier in life, particularly when the summary statistics for these outcomes were derived mostly from younger samples than those of AD cases.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Therefore, we conducted these analyses only in one direction.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	For genetically correlated phenotypes, we selected independent (r2=<0.1), GWS lead SNPs as instrumental variables in the analyses.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The method estimates a putative causal effect of the exposure on the outcome (bxy) as a function of the relationship between the SNPs' effects on the exposure (bzx) and the SNPs' effects on the outcome (bzy), given the assumption that the effect of non-pleiotropic SNPs on an exposure (x) should be related to their effect on the outcome (y) in an independent sample only via mediation through the phenotypic causal pathway (bxy).
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The estimated causal effect coefficients (bxy) are approximately equal to the natural log odds ratio (OR) for a case-control trait.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	An OR of 2 can be interpreted as a doubled risk compared to the population prevalence of a binary trait for every SD increase in the exposure trait.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	This method can help differentiate the causal direction of association between two traits, but cannot make any statement about the intermediate mechanisms involved in any potential causal process
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Summary statistics will be made available for download upon publication (https://ctg.cncr.nl)
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	The analyses were produced with standard code for software programs utilized, which can be made available on request from the first author.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	All software used is freely available online.
0	NA	NA	NA	METHODS	Custom code for the meta-analysis correcting for overlapping samples is available at https://github.com/Kyoko-wtnb/mvGWAM
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	FIG	The main genetic analysis encompasses the procedures to detect GWAS risk loci for AD.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The functional analysis includes the in silico functional follow-up procedures with the aim to put the genetic findings in biological context.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	N=total of individuals within specified dataset
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Manhattan plot displays all associations per variant ordered according to their genomic position on the x-axis and showing the strength of the association with the -log10 transformed P-values on the y-axis.
1	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The y-axis is limited to enable visualization of non-APOE loci.
1	NA	apolipoprotein E	NA	FIG	For the Phase 3 meta-analysis, the original -log10 P-value for the APOE locus is 276
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	a) Functional effects of variants in genomic risk loci of the meta-analysis (the colours of the legend are ordered from right to left in the figure) - the second bar shows distribution for exonic variants only; b) Distribution of RegulomeDB score for variants in genomic risk loci, with a low score indicating a higher probability of having a regulatory function (see Methods); c) Distribution of minimum chromatin state across 127 tissue and cell types for variants in genomic risk loci, with lower states indicating higher accessibility (see Methods); d) Heritability enrichment of 28 functional variant annotations calculated with stratified LD score regression (bars represent standard errors).
0	DHS MIND	NA	NA	FIG	UTR=untranslated region; CTCF=CCCTC-binding factor; DHS=DNaseI Hypersensitive Site; TFBS=transcription factor binding site; DGF=DNAaseI digital genomic footprint; e) Zoomed-in circos plot of chromosome 8; f) Zoomed-in circos plot of chromosome 16.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Circos plots show implicated genes by significant loci, where dark blue areas indicate genomic risk loci, green lines indicate eQTL associations and orange lines indicate chromatin interactions.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Genes mapped by both eQTL and chromatin interactions are in red.
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	FIG	The outer layer shows a Manhattan plot containing the negative log10-transformed P-value of each SNP in the GWAS meta-analysis of AD.
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	Full circos plots of all autosomal chromosomes are provided in Supplementary Figure 4
0	NA	NA	NA	FIG	The gene-set results are displayed per category of biological mechanisms (a), brain cell-types (b) and tissue types (c).
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	FIG	The red horizontal line indicates the significance threshold corrected for all gene-set tests of all categories, while the blue horizontal lines display the significance threshold corrected only for the number of tests within the three categories (that is, gene-ontology, tissue expression or single cell expression); d) Genetic correlations between AD and other heritable traits (bars represent 95% confidence intervals); e) Venn diagram showing the number of genes mapped by four distinct strategies.
0	ADHD	NA	NA	FIG	ADHD=attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; BMI=body mass index; EBV=Epstein-Barr virus
0	Alzheimer's disease	NA	NA	TABLE	Summary statistics of significantly associated regions identified in the genome-wide association analysis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) case-control status, AD-by-proxy phenotype and meta-analysis
